Harmonic Patterns
Harmonic patterns are used for technical analysis and the main function is to predict future price
movement. It is a trading strategy that works with Fibonacci retracement and extension ratios.
However, the Fibonacci ratios used in the analysis and measurement of Harmonic patterns are
0.382, 0.50, 0.786, 0.886, 1.27, 1.41, 1.618, 2.0, 2.24, 2.618, 3.14, and 3.618. Fibonacci levels must
align with accurate Fibonacci wave measurement for patterns to be valid. Moreover, the Harmonic
pattern is used to identify how long price will move and the exact point where reversal is expected
to occur.




Harmonic Pattern is usually formed when four swings high/low points are connected together
(using Zig Zag indicator). This strategy gives a high probability of success and it also helps to
identify areas of demand and supply.

Technically, patterns exist within other patterns, and this also cut across time frames as long as the
trend is formed in a wavy manner. It is important to draw harmonic patterns on higher time frames
(1hr upwards) as lower time frames have more noise that may render the patterns ineffective.
The combination of Elliott waves principles and the analysis of Harmonic Patterns is what
gives experienced traders the upper hand when it comes to trading currency pairs successfully.
The four most popular patterns are the Gartley, Butterfly, Bat and Crab patterns. We also have the
Shark and the Cypher patterns.



How to Draw Harmonic Patterns:
Step 1:
Load Zig zag custom indicator on the chart (see settings below).



This
trading
chart
will look
like this
(see
image
below).




Step
2:
Count/
identify
the last
four
zigzag
lines.
Step 3:
Label the starting point of Zigzag line 1 as X, also label the end point as A. Label the end point of
line 2 as B, and label the end points of line 3 and 4 as C and D respectively as shown in the image
below.




Step 4:
Identify the type of pattern that is formed. For example, in the chart above, point A is higher than
point C. Point X is also way higher than point D. This indicates that a Bearish Cypher pattern is
possibly forming on the chart. However, point D must break higher than point B for a Bearish
Cypher pattern to be complete.

Step 5:
Identify the correction and extension lines from point A to D. From the image above, line A-B is a
correction of line X-A. Line B-C is an extension of line A-B.




Types of Harmonic Patterns:
Gartley Pattern (Wave A to D is correction-correction-
extension)
For Bullish Gartley pattern, BA price move is the correction of XA. BC price move is a retracement
of AB price movement while CD price move is an extension of wave BC.



Point B is 0.618 retracement of impulsive wave XA. Point C is 0.382 to 0.886 retracement of wave
AX. Point D is 0.786 retracement of XA. The long position is usually entered at point D after
bullish price action is confirmed (that is, waiting for the price to start an upward movement).
Looking at the Bearish Gartley pattern, BA price move is the correction of XA. BC price move is
also a retracement of AB price movement while CD price move is an extension of BC price
movement.
Also, Point B on Bearish Gartley pattern is 0.618 retracement of impulsive wave XA. Point C is
0.382 to 0.886 retracement of wave AX. Point D is 0.786 retracement of XA. The short position is
usually entered at point D after bearish price action is confirmed (that is, waiting for the price to
start a downward movement).



Bat Pattern (Wave A to D is correction-correction-extension)




Analyzing the Bearish Bat pattern, BA price move is the correction of XA. BC price move is also a
retracement of AB price movement while CD price move is an extension of wave BC.


Point B is a minimum of 0.382 to a maximum 0.50 retracement of impulsive wave XA. Point C is
0.382 to 0.886 retracement of wave AX. Point D is 0.886 retracement of XA. The short position is
usually entered at point D after bearish price action is confirmed (that is, waiting for the price to
start a downward movement).
For the Bullish Bat pattern, BA price move is the correction of XA. BC price move is a retracement
of AB price movement while CD price move is an extension of BC price movement.
Also, Point B on Bullish Bat pattern is a minimum of 0.382 to a maximum of 0.50 retracement of
impulsive wave XA. Point C is is a minimum of 0.382 to a maximum of 0.886 retracement of wave
AX. Point D is 0.886 retracement of XA. The long position is usually entered at point D after
bullish price action is confirmed (that is, waiting for the price to start an upward movement).




Butterfly Pattern (Wave A to D is correction-correction-
extension)




Analyzing the Bearish Butterfly pattern, BA price move is the correction of XA. BC price move is
also a retracement of AB price movement while CD price move is an extension of BC price
movement.


Point B is 0.786 retracement of impulsive wave XA. Point C is a minimum 0.382 to a maximum
0.886 retracement of wave AX. Point D is 1.27 extension of XA. A short position is usually entered
at point D after bearish price action is confirmed (that is, waiting for the price to start a downward
movement).
For the Bullish Butterfly pattern, BA price move is the correction of XA. BC price move is a
retracement of AB price movement while CD price move is an extension of BC price movement.
Also, Point B on Bullish Butterfly pattern is 0.786 retracement of impulsive wave XA. Point C is
minimum 0.382 to maximum 0.886 retracement of wave AX. Point D is 1.27 extension of XA. A
long position is usually entered at point D after bullish price action is confirmed (that is, waiting for
the price to start an upward movement).



Crab Pattern (Wave A to D is correction-correction-extension)
Analyzing the Bearish Crab pattern, wave BA is the correction of wave XA. BC price movement is
also a retracement of AB price movement. While CD is an extension of wave BC.


Point B is a minimum of 0.382 to a maximum of 0.886 retracement of impulsive wave XA. Point C
is a minimum of 0.382 to a maximum of 0.886 retracement of wave AX. Point D is 1.618 extension
of XA. A short position is usually entered at point D after bearish price action is confirmed (that is,
waiting for the price to start a downward movement).
For the Bullish Crab pattern, BA price movement is the correction of XA. BC price movement is a
retracement of AB price movement, while CD price move is an extension of wave BC.
Also, Point B on the Bullish Crab pattern is a minimum of 0.382 to a maximum of 0.886
retracement of impulsive wave XA. Point C is a minimum of 0.382 to a maximum of 0.886
retracement of wave AX. Point D is 1.618 extension of XA. A long position is usually entered at
point D after bullish price action is confirmed (that is, waiting for the price to start an upward
movement).
Shark Pattern (Wave A to D is correction-extension-extension)




Looking at the Bearish Shark pattern, wave BA is the correction of wave XA. BC price movement
is an extension of AB price movement. While CD is an extension of wave BC.
Point B is a mimum of 0.382 to a maximum of 0.886 retracement of impulsive wave XA. Point C is
a minimum of 1.13 to a maximum of 1.618 extension of wave AX. Point D is a minimum of 0.886
to a maximum of 1.13 retracement/extension of XA. The short position is usually entered at point D
after bearish price action is confirmed (that is, waiting for the price to start a downward movement).



For the Bullish Shark pattern, BA price movement is the correction of XA. BC price movement is
an extension of AB price movement, while CD price movement is an extension of wave BC.
Also, Point B on Bullish Shark pattern is a minimum of 0.382 to a maximum of 0.886 retracement
of impulsive wave XA. Point C is a minimum of 1.13 to a maximum of 1.618 extension of wave
AX. Point D is a minimum of 0.886 to a maximum of 1.13 retracement/extension of XA. The long
position is usually entered at point D after bullish price action is confirmed (that is, waiting for the
price to start an upward movement).



Cypher Pattern (Wave A to D is correction-extension-
extension)




Analyzing the Bearish Cypher pattern, wave BA is the correction of wave XA. Wave BC is an
extension of wave AB. While CD is an extension of wave BC.

Point B is a minmum of 0.382 to a maximum of 0.618 retracement of impulsive wave XA. Point C
is a minimum of 1.13 to a maximum of 1.41 extension of wave AX. Point D is 0.786 retracement of
XA. A short position is usually entered at point D after bearish price action is confirmed (that is,
waiting for the price to start a downward movement).
For the Bullish Cypher pattern, wave BA is the correction of wave XA. Wave BC is an extension of
wave AB. While CD is an extension of wave BC.
Also, Point B on Bullish Cypher is a minimum of 0.382 to a maximum of 0.618 retracement of
impulsive wave XA. Point C is a minimum of 1.13 to a maximum of 1.41 extension of wave AX.
Point D is 0.786 retracement of XA. A long position is usually entered at point D after bullish price
action is confirmed (that is, waiting for the price to start an upward movement).



AB=CD Pattern
Analyzing the Bearish ABCD pattern, wave BC is the correction of wave AB. While CD is an
extension of wave BC.
Point C is a minimum of 0.618 to a maximum of 0.786 retracement of impulsive wave AB. Point D
is a minimum of 1.27 to a maximum of 1.618 extension of BC. The short position is usually entered
at point D after bearish price action is confirmed (that is, waiting for the price to start a downward
movement).
For the Bullish ABCD pattern, wave BC is the correction of wave AB. While CD is an extension of
wave BC.
Point C is a minimum of 0.618 to a maximum of 0.786 retracement of impulsive wave AB. Point D
is a minimum of 1.27 to a maximum of 1.618 extension of BC. The long position is entered at point
D after bullish price action is confirmed (that is, waiting for the price to start an upward movement).



3 Drives Pattern
How To Identify Harmonic Patterns At The Start
https://www.beanfxtrader.com/harmonic-patterns/
