Episode 1: (Introduction)

   -   Have an independent mindset. See things yourself and come to decisions on your own.
       Do not be codependent on him.
   -   Don’t cut corners in his teachings.
   -   Do your homework, study, do the things he suggests. Study hard and fully understand
       the concepts.
   -   Backtest, backtest, backtest.

Episode 2: (Elements To A Trade Setup)

Weekly

   -   Before the new trading week begins, think about what the next weekly candle is likely to
       do. Establish a weekly bias/assumption based on this weekly candle, either lower or
       higher. This is your weekly bias.
   -   When it comes to price action on the weekly chart.. Ask yourself this question: ‘What is it
       most likely to draw towards? Ie: is there an imbalance higher, is there a liquidity pool
       lower? This sets your initial bias for the week.

Factors that can impact the weekly candle…
   - Seasonal tendencies
   - Interest Rates
   - Earnings seasons & the release of quarterly earnings
   - Price action on a weekly and daily chart
Daily (Long Term Perspective)

   -   Next, go into the daily time frame and figure out where you are in the grand scheme of
       things on that weekly range expanding higher or lower.
   -   If we are bearish biased on the weekly candle; then on the daily timeframe, every short
       term low, underneath those lows are sell stops aka liquidity.
   -   Learn to recognize where the market is going to draw to.. It’s drawing to 1 of 2
       things, buy/sell stops (liquidity) or it's running to an imbalance.
   -   Ask yourself this question: Where are the liquidity pools price can seek? Smart money
       will be looking at old lows and old highs. Liquidity providers will be looking to take
       business in around these same levels.
   -   Look for swing highs and swing lows to get your liquidity.
   -   The draw on liquidity is for the most part found on the daily timeframe.
   -   The majority of your analysis should be on the daily chart.
   -   Anytime a significant price move is expected; always anticipate some measure of
       a stop hunt or a short term high/low being taken out.
   -   The market constantly engineers liquidity.
   -   The daily chart should have alot of your time and analysis,
   -   The daily chart will give you feedback every 24hrs on that weekly candle.
   -   We use that feedback to support our assumptions of the weekly candle expanding
       higher/lower.
How to determine draw on liquidity

   -   The DOL will either be 1. a liquidity pool or 2. an imbalance.
   -   Large funds aka smart money will be looking at these two things on higher time frames.

1 Hour (Long Term Perspective)
   - With a bias and a draw on liquidity from the higher time frames we can now build a
      framework on the 1h chart.
   - Once the algorithm (IPDA) seeks the induced liquidity to move the market higher/lower
      we want to jump to the lower time frames to look for a specific entry.

15 minute (Intermediate Term Perspective)
   - Once you see a MSS or BOS with displacement, you want to look for your FVG.
   - Measure displacement range with fib. Your FVG’s will form in this range, from the 15m
      down to the 1m.

Make sure you are buying at a discount in the displacement range if you’re long (draw fib from
bottom of range to top)
Make sure you are buying at a premium in the displacement range if you’re short (draw fib from
top of range to bottom)

Enter trade with a limit order in the FVG, stop loss below candle that created FVG
Use FVG’s & liquidity (previous highs/lows) as exit target for your setups.

Rule of thumb, target the low hanging fruit first

5m (Short-Term Perspective)
Charting Routine

   -   Check forexfactory.com for high impact news drivers
   -   Start on the weekly timeframe and set your initial bias for the week based off of the
       weekly candle.
   -   Move to the daily timeframe and figure out where you are in the grand scheme of things
       on that weekly range expanding higher or lower.
   -   If we are biased short/weak based on the weekly candle; on the daily timeframe, every
       short term low, underneath those lows are sell stops aka liquidity.
   -   Recognize where the market is going to draw to.. Its drawing to 1 of 2 things, stops
       AKA liquidity or its running to an imbalance.
   -   Move to hourly chart, use the daily levels , daily low/high, zoom into 1 hr, liquidity
   -   Anytime a significant price move is expected; always anticipate some measure of
       a stop hunt or a short term high/low being taken out.
   -   find imbalances and order blocks. 1h is used to identify trend (swing lows swing highs
       and volume imbalance)
   -   Drop down into 15m, identify the 15m imbalances within them
   -   drop down to 1 2 3 5m chart and find FVG

the 1m, 2m, 3m chart tends to be the best for finding imbalances in indices because this is what
the high frequency algorithms operate on nothing higher than 3 minutes
IPDA moves the market
Like watching 8:30 - 11 am there is usually a setup in there still watches after, but that is
generally the sweet little spot

Trading Times: EST

8:30am -12:00am
No Trade Zone from 12:00pm -1:00pm
1:30pm - 4:00pm

want to try to be positioned and be riding something into lunch, or taking some off into lunch

1:30 is the point in time where you look for a stop hunt for the pm session, so same as
8:30 for am session

Episode 3: (Internal Range Liquidity & Market Structure Shifts)

Market Structure Breaks (MSB) aka Break of Structures (BOS) lead to the prolonged movement
of a multi-day trend, thus they are more significant than Market Structure Shifts.
BOS is a break of strong swing highs and lows, MSS is a break of minor lows and highs within
the range of the strong swing highs and lows.

A Market Structure Break AKA Break of Structure requires more context when compared to
Market Structure Shifts.

Swing high is the highest swing point before the pullback.




Market Structure Shifts (MSS) lead to an intra-day draw to intra-day liquidity pools or FVG’s.

After the intra-day draw occurs, the prolonged trend continues. When price takes out liquidity
in the market, Market Structure Shifts become more significant.
After a MSS, the market will start to seek opposing liquidity.

Market Structure Shifts Areas of Interest
   - An old low or clean low for a Bullish MSS
   - An old high or clean high for a Bearish MSS

Where are you looking for liquidity
  - Highs and Lows of Asian Session (8:00PM - 0:00AM)
  - Highs and Lows of London Session (2:00AM - 5:00AM)
  - Highs and Lows of NY Session (7:00AM - 10:00AM)
  - Intraday highs and lows before equities open (9:30AM)

Buying and selling strength/pressure has absolutely zero effect on where price is going to go
It is algo’s pricing things higher or lower. Whichever way algos are offering price is the way it
will go, buying/selling pressure has no effect. The market seeks liquidity at swing highs and
lows. The market constantly engineers liquidity.

Episode 4: (Backtesting)

Be like a deer hunter, train your eye to track this setup. Go in looking for it and know what it
looks like. Stalk this pattern. 8:30 am starts the “hunt” for the setup
When backtesting, annotate it and look for similarities in setups. Annotate important factors like
how long did it take from the BMS to get up into the FVG. How long did it take from your entry to
your target. How much drawdown did you weather before it hit your target? How much draw
down to get stopped out for loss? The rules of the setup force the market to show it’s hand.
Backtest. Collect tons of examples of trades.

Episode 5: (Intraday Order Flow & Understanding The Daily Range)

You want to trade the futures monthly contract with the most liquidity. can see it on barchart.com
Whichever contract has the most open interest, trade that
Must always respect stop loss and have sound risk management

want to see displacement
the only two patterns you need
displacement, fair value gap
Important episode, go over again

Morning session
Looking for swing highs and swing lows prior to 8:30, 1:30 looking for swing highs and swing
lows. Buy program is when algo’s go into the process of “spooling” where algos continuously
offer higher prices
3 Drives Pattern

The 3 drives pattern is followed by 3 swing highs and swing lows creating HL and HH
This happens to grab liquidity
Happens near buyside liquidity

Displacement is the official breakthrough candle that will create the FVG. looks like “VVM” thick
bodied momentum candle.

Episode 6: (Market Efficiency Paradigm & Institutional Order Flow)

How we internalize price delivery

    -   Do not trade patterns for patterns sake
    -   We do not trade indicator readings or momentum
    -   We look to enter longs where retail sells
    -   We look to enter shorts where retail buys
    -   We anticipate price seeking liquidity
    -   Time of day is vital when engaging with price

Smart money is not looking at price patterns. They’re looking at liquidity. What is the underlying
narrative right now in the market? Is today’s daily range going to go higher and how? They may
take it lower at the open, engineer liquidity, then run it up towards end of the day. It’s efficient for
smart money traders to view the market in that perspective. They are looking at liquidity every
day. As opposed to technical analysis.
The first element algorithms operate under is time. There is an algorithm that delivers efficient
market delivery. Go into price action with a “market efficiency paradigm” perception. The market
wants to engineer liquidity.




The ICT Bearish Fair Value Gap

   -   Institutional order flow pattern based on a Three Candle formation
   -   The optimal formation of the bearish FVG will be found after a run into buy side liquidity
   -   Typically found just above a single price high or multiple price highs in a relative basis
       (double top)

Three candle formation, The first candle’s low has to be traded below by the following 2nd
candle. The third candle (continuation candle) has to trade with an extended low below the 2nd
candle's low. But cannot have a high, that goes back to the first candle’s low. stop loss above
candle 1 or the swing high
In that little gap space, the first candles low and the 3rd candles high (two red lines), price is
only being offered to the sell side by algorithms. The market wants to trade back into that area
at some future time to efficiently balance itself out. Stop loss is placed above the high of the first
candle.

The Bearish Market Structure Shift

   -   The market will see price delivery of a rally above an old high or highs, then quickly shift
       lower
   -   It needs to be a strong move and thick bodied candle
   -   Significance is placed on the term quick and with displacement lower
   -   Mark displacement high and low, look for a FVG inside.
   -   If there is no FVG inside it, there is no trade




The ICT Bullish Fair Value Gap

   -   Institutional order flow pattern based on a Three Candle formation
   -   The optimal formation of the bearish FVG will be found after a run into sell side liquidity
   -   Typically found just above a single price low or multiple price lows in a relative basis
       (double bottom)
   -   Stop loss below candle 1 or the swing low
The Bullish Market Structure Shift

    -   The market will see price delivery of a decline below an old low or lows, then quickly shift
        higher
    -   It needs to be a strong move and thick bodied candle
    -   Significance is placed on the term quick and with displacement higher. not a wick, or
        small candle
    -   Mark displacement high and low, look for FVG inside
    -   If there is no FVG inside it, there is no trade




really good description of backtesting / trade management on setup

Episode 7: (Daily Bias & Consolidation Hurdles)

Use the daily timeframe to determine bias

Get a read on where it likely is going to next, where is it going to draw? Is it going to draw higher
to an old high, or lower to an old low.

there will be “grey areas” where things aren’t always so clear. there will be losing trades.

when price is hanging around equilibrium .5 50%

it gets very difficult to determine a bias
so when that happens you have to rely on intraday charts and look for liquidity pools, running
out old highs and old lows. be alot more nimble and don’t look to hold too long.

when algorithms are “spooling” it mines they are offering price directionally one way

algorithms run on time then price

Episode 8: (Apply Institutional Order Flow To Forex Markets)

Market context, confluence
Look at amzn aapl msft /vx , relative strength? How are market leading equities holding up

Episode 9: (Power of 3 and New York PM Session Opportunities)

Power of 3 is accumulation, manipulation and distribution

specifically dealing with daily time frame (but the concept is fractal)

If bullish, he expects the opening price to be near the LOD or of the session, trade lower making
an important low, and then rallies. Creates a high, then closes near HOD.

Entries are not the most important thing; knowing where price is most likely trying to go to is.

Episode 10: (Implementing Economic Calendar Events With The Open)
(very good explanation of daily bias with power of 3)

on the daily mark the daily high of range and daily low of range then mark .50 equilibrium with
fibonacci

above .50 (equilibrium) is premium market
below .50 (equilibrium) is discount market

if there is an imbalance the market is going to want to rebalance it




                  long daily bias power of 3
                       short daily bias power of 3

the algorithm (IDPA) opening price is 12 midnight EST.
also mark the opening price of the 8:30 am candle

you want to see a fakeout high above opening price (manipulation) then drop below
(accumulation), then bottom (distribution)

this is the judas swing

Episode 11:

entire daily range = opening price at midnight

morning session = 8:30 am opening price
look at all the swing highs

swing high is a 3 candle formation. It is a high that has a lower high candle to the left of it and a
lower high candle to the right of it . the highest candle in the middle is your swing high.

when the displacement comes it’s like a confirmation. just sit back and relax. let it do it’s thing

Episode 12: (Market Structure For Precision Technicians | Advanced Price Action Theory)

Use daily timeframe structure to construct daily bias, if price trades and remains above the
structure, your analysis is wrong. If you’re bearish, the long term high from the daily should
remain intact. market structure will always validate/invalidate your trade ideas.

WE ARE NOT interested in picking tops & bottoms of the market.

Every single time price rebalances an old imbalance, that swing that is created is labeled in his
mind as an intermediate term high or low.

Any time an imbalance is rebalanced, that is labeled as an intermediate term high/low.
(ITH)
When we look at price, we are looking to see, does the market have a reason to go
up/down for stops/liquidity, or is it likely to go to rebalance an imbalance.

What is the current market narrative? What is it likely to be doing right now?
This is the #1 ICT determines right when he sits down.

Use market structure to determine which way price is likely to go up/down

(LTH/LTL) Long Term High/Low: Framed on a high time frame resistance level.Generally
going to be framed on the daily chart. Based on the daily level, if we believe price is going lower,
we should expect the LTH to hold. If it does not hold; we can assume our analysis was wrong.

(ITH/ITL) Intermediate Term High/Low: Every time price rebalances an imbalance, the swing
that is created is labeled as an intermediate term high/low. Or a short term high that has a lower
short term high to the left of it and a lower short term high to the right of it. The inverse for ITL.
Those are the only two forms of ITH/ITL. Once you mark this ITH the STH that follows it
should be lower. It should not be violated if you are bearish. If it does not hold you can
assume your analysis was wrong. If an ITH/ITl breaks that is a significant break of
structure.

STH/STL: Short Term High/Low:

You want to blend this with institutional order flow, AKA When you’re bearish all of your up
close candles should keep price from going higher than them. They should not be
violated. The market should respect the institutional order flow.
Typically what you’ll see is ITL has a higher STL to the right of it and a higher STL to the left of
it. An ITH has a lower STH to the left of it and a lower STH to the right of it. But it is not required.

If the ITH is not higher than the STH’s the market is weak and is tipping it’s hand to you that it is
going to go lower. Vice verse for ITL and STL’s. The STH that follows the ITH should not trade
above it.
If a STL and ITL taken out then we can go to the LTL

A LTH/LTL is generally going to be linked to the daily chart

The majority of your analysis should be on the daily chart.
You should be determining where that daily chart is going over the next day, or two, or week. Try
not to forecast longer than a week. Keep your perspective limited to a 5 day time horizon.

There are lots of ways to frame a trade, but you have to have something that links directly to the
daily chart, because the daily chart is exactly what institutions and banks are trading off of.

Daily chart, where your bias is determined, makes or breaks your trend continuation, etc.

If we have a break below an ITL then we have a significant break in market structure.
This ITL is more significant. This tells you then you can start using the LTH/LTL and start getting
projections down.

The LTH and LTL are your framework from the daily.
If your ITH/ITL get violated, you know your trade idea is incorrect and you move on from the
trade idea.

If you can frame a context around a price swing/structure that is linked to a higher timeframe
chart like the daily, you have a wonderful framework and high probability trade.

Do not trade against the daily time frame

“If you are trading against what the daily timeframe is likely to be doing; you are
absolutely asking for failure. Don’t swim against the current. Swim with the current. Align
with the higher timeframes.”




Episode 13: (Market Structure For Precision Technicians | Advanced Price Action Theory)

You must be emotionless and indifferent to losing.

You must determine your plan before you enter the market. Stop loss, risk, partials, profit target,
etc.

Episode 16: (Multiple Setups Within Trading Sessions With Index Futures)

Opening price for index futures is midnight 12:00am or 0:00

Opening price for equities 9:30am

8:30am

Majority of your analysis should be framed on the daily chart, ask yourself based on the daily:
where is it likely to go? Where is the expansion likely to take price, higher or lower? That’s going
to carve out your bias.

no more than 4 trades a day, 2 trades in the morning. 2 trades in the afternoon

Your #1 goal is to understand where price is likely to go to/reach for? When you have the
understood, it becomes easy to know what you’re looking for.
The algorithm seeks discount to premium, premium to discount.

oversimplified: all the algorithms do is reach for liquidity in the form of buy stops and sell stops,
and/or imbalances or the creation of an imbalance (FVG) or return back to a FVG. and they do it
on the basis of time then price.

Episode 18:

if he got funded with 100k and was starting over again
he says he’d use this 2022 model and do exactly as follows

bread and butter video

goes over basically everything in detail

Episode 19:

You don't need to be pinpoint accurate with entries, you just need to have sound money/risk
management
the only time my trades are profitable is when I was in line with what the algorithm would
do anyway

Institutional order flow is rooted on higher time frame bias

Episode 21: Does not hold overnight, does not swing, typical trade time is 90m -2h

any time the market trades above an old high, it’s a short term premium because it’s tapping into
liquidity

any time the market trades below an old low, it’s a short term discount, because it’s tapping into
liquidity

market structure helps you frame an idea

your trade ideas must be in alignment with the present narrative.

narrative: why should the market go where you think it’s going to go on that particular day

based on the climate, economic calendar, and the volatility of the session
really good video showing trade examples
Episode 24:
Bearish scenario: Run above old highs or relative equal highs, grab the liquidity, short term low
taken out with displacement (MSS), then go through the displacement leg looking for FVG’s as
an entry.

great video simplifying,summarizing the model

I promise that i will endure losses.
Trading is about managing losses
Where do setups form?

Old Highs/Lows and Relative Equal Highs/Lows

Run above Old Highs/Lows Relative Equal Highs/Lows (Liquidity Grab)
As soon as that happens, find the nearest short term high/low.
Wait for an energetic move with displacement to take out that short term high/low.
This is your market structure shift with displacement.
Measure the discount/premium of displacement range.
Look for FVG to form within displacement range.




Fair Value Gaps

Run into an old fair value gap.
Wait for a MSS with displacement.
Measure the discount/premium of this displacement range.
Look for FVG to form within displacement range.

Episode 25:

Pay attention to seasonal tendencies

the last week of april going into may

there is a tendency for markets to be weak

Don't try to pick bottoms/highs in the market, you will lose money doing that
It is not necessary..

The algorithm operates on new york time

a fractal is a piece of price action , a very small segment of price action
many times when there is an afternoon continuation to the upside, you will see the lows from
lunch time, get swept (aka liquidity grab) before continuation

on those choppy, range does, wait for 3 o’clock afternoon session for market to grab liquidity
from of range

episode 38:
narrative is the understanding of what price should do, why, and what things will price encounter
to prove the narrative you are assuming place, is in fact underway.

day trading the 2022 model:

use the 15 and 5m, with the logic and narrative that you’re going to trade the daily range

afternoon session,

if you’re bullish, the market has ran higher in the morning, then consolidates into lunch, then
after lunch, drops down below a short term low and sweeps sell stops before running again

once you can read the market, where it’s drawing to, and where it’s turning. where is going to
go.. then entries become the easiest part

understand what price is likely to do and where it’s drawing to

understand narrative

submit to higher time frame trend
the market is likely to follow its higher timeframe trend/direction

don’t try to pick tops and bottoms

don’t take low probability setups.
low probability = no trade.

if there is not a strong conviction one direction then it is low probability.

high probability conditions with ICT is the algorithm presenting something in price that is so one
sided and so obvious that it wants to go higher or lower, that it’s very difficult for you to justify the
other side. It should feel obvious and one sided. If you can justify an opposing setup, that is not
a high probability trade.

Daily Bias

find liquidity
check the daily , see where we have taken liquidity
if we just took sellside, price is going to seek buyside, and the inverse, if just took buyside, price
will now seek sellside. this establishes our daily bias


Futures:

Morning Session: 8:30am - 11:00am

Afternoon Session: 1:30 - 3:00pm

Indices

Midnight Open: 0:00am
New York Open: 8:30am
Equities Open: 9:30am

Forex Sessions:

New York: 8:00am - 5:00pm
London: 2:00am - 11:00am
Asia: 7:00pm - 4:00am


Killzones

London: 2:00am - 5:00am
New York: 7:00am - 11:00am

Key Concepts & Terms

submit to time & price
submit to the higher timeframe trend.

time & price
price is always drawing to liquidity or imbalances

algo runs on two principles : liquidity, rebalancing & creating imbalance


Price is delivered by an algorithm. There is no buying or selling pressure.
Algorithmic theory is based on time & price.
Price Levels are useless until time is considered. (submit to time.)
Time is of no use unless price is at a key PD Array.
Blending the two yields astonishing results and precision.




Kill Zone: Certain times that we trade in because they are when the market is most predictable
bc that’s when the algorithm is on
kill zones are when you determine your entry, place your orders & walk away

Discount/Premium: 0.5 fibonacci retracement that shows oversold/overbought conditions.
run the fib using the candle body, it is more accurate

Only get long in a discount, only get short in a premium

Liquidity Pool: Liquidity pools or resting liquidity, is an established level in the market where
stops and orders can be resting, leaving these areas exposed for smart money to hunt these
areas taking stop losses and triggering new buy and sell orders into the market. buy stops and
sell stops are sources of liquidity above and below short term and long term highs and lows.
Liquidity can also be engineered by smart money knowing they will trigger these levels at a
future time in price, crouching the "true value" of the currency pair.

Liquidity Void: A range in price delivery where one side of the market liquidity is shown in wide
or long one sided ranges or candles. Price typically will want to revisit this area. This is an
inefficiency/imbalance that price will want to retrace to for redelivery.

WITH A LV you never really get that run on stops
The rapid movement of price with the same series of candles (speed)

Swing High/Low:
Swing high/low consists of 3 candles, a candle with a lower high, a candle in the middle
with a higher high, and another candle with a lower high on the other end. For a swing
low it is the same idea but inverse.




Internal structure: Everything between the swing high and swing low
After BOS, expect a pullback on that timeframe
Trend change = swing highs and lows taken out
MSS: is intraday internal structure
The very first sign of weakness/strength

Break Of Structure (BOS): When a key high or low are taken out with the expectation of price
continuing in that direction. Swing highs and lows taken out as trend continues
Market Structure Shift (MSS): When an intraday short term high or low is taken out with
displacement. Only significant if price has traded into buy/sell stops (after a liquidity grab)
Anticipate MSS after a liquidity grab. You want to see displacement and FVG’s created within
the displacement range. 15m timeframe
Trending Down: Want to look at the highs for the MSS
Trending Up: Want to look at the lows for the MSS Take out a high and a low with
displacement




Dealing Range:
A range where price has taken out buyside, then reversed and taken out sellside.

Dealing range stays dealing range until external liquidity is swept then thats the new one

Bullish Dealing Range:
Takes out sellside first then buyside external range liquidity, look for internal range liquidity pd
arrays in a discount to get long

aka the external high gets broken

Bearish Dealing Range:
Takes out buyside first then sellside external range liquidity look for internal range liquidity PD
arrays in a premium to get short.
aka the external low gets broken
Displacement: an energetic move that breaks the previous market structure.
Should result in a FVG created within the displacement range.

Displacement marks: the end of a counter trend false more, or the beginning of a reversal.


Fair Value Gap: A price delivery range where one side of the market is offered and usually
confirmed by a liquidity void on the lower time frame charts in the same price range. (imbalance)




Requirements to be a FVG
   - Must have a run on liquidity first (BSL or SSL)
   - Found within the displacement range of a Market Structure Shift

Breaker Block:
Form of mitigation, A run on liquidity, followed by a MSS
Bullish Breaker: A bullish range or up close candle in the most recent swing high prior to an
old low being violated. AKA liquidity grab below an old low, sellers are then trapped short. The
sellers that sold this low and later see this low violated, will then look to mitigate the loss. When
price returns back to the swing high, this is considered a bullish setup. Mark the breaker using




the last up candle of the swing high.
Bearish Breaker: A bearish range or down close candle in the most recent swing low prior to
an old high being violated. Aka a liquidity grab above an old high, buyers are then trapped long.
The buyers that buy the low and then later see the swing low violated, will look to mitigate the
loss. When price returns back to the swing low, this is considered a bearish setup.
Mark the breaker using the last down candle of the swing low.

- A bearish breaker will keep your ability from reaching an OB (or any PDA that comes after it)
which is the top of the hierarchy. When you see bearish breakers, it will prevent price from
hitting the OB. Its the most dominant PDA.
- breakers by themselves is most likely the first thing you encounter, even though its near
bottom of list
Order Blocks: A change in the state of delivery. An OB is manipulation. Gathers buy orders
then a FVG Should print as the buy orders are inefficiently delivered. Order blocks are basically
bookmarks for IPDA. If the wick is overlapping with an FVG then you use the wick. If the
wick isn’t overlapping with an FVG then use the body.


   -   Liquidity Grab
   -   BOS
   -   FVG
   -




A High Probability Order Block
   - Liquidity grab
   - Break of structure
   - FVG + displacement
   - made during sessions

This is institutional order flow, price should respect it.
50% of the body is what matters; the mean threshold is what is important
Once passed 50% it bodes well for continuation that way

Bullish draw on liquidity, bullish order blocks should be respected and price should not trade
below them.
Bearish bias, bearish order blocks should be respected and price should not trade above them.

if the wick is overlapping with an FVG then you use the wick. If the wick isn’t overlapping
with an FVG then use the body.


Invalidating: When an OB is traded through if it doesn’t have a reaction is can be invalidated
or when we trade all the way below/above an OB. Or through mean threshold.

If we are bullish and DOL on daily is bullish seeking buyside, only enter/trade with bullish
ob’s and target/take profit at bearish order blocks.

draw using open close (bodies of candle)
displacement within these OB’s is the evidence in price action that we have institutional
sponsorship behind the move. Only trade with the OB’s that align with high tf bias and DOL

Bullish Order Block: The lowest candle or price bar with a down close that has the most range
between open to close and is near a support level. Series of down close candles before strong
move with displacement.

A change in the state of delivery, algorithmically


   -   Liquidity grab of a low
   -   Break of structure
   -   FVG/displacement (confirms institutional sponsorship is behind the move)
   -   Preferably 2-3x as big as the ob
   -   Near a support level (IRP, PD Array)
Bearish Order Block: The highest candle or price bar with an up close that has the most range
between open to close and is near a resistance level.

A chance in the state of delivery, algorithmically.

    - Liquidity grab of a high
    - Break of structure
    - FVG/displacement (confirms institutional sponsorship is behind the move)
    - Preferably 2-3x as big as the ob
    - Near a resistance level (IRP, PD Array)
If we are bullish and DOL on daily is bullish seeking buyside, only enter/trade with bullish
ob’s and target/take profit at bearish order blocks

Bullish Rejection Block:
When a price high has formed with long wicks on the high(s) of the candlestick(s) and price
reaches up above the body of the candles to run the buyside liquidity out before price declines.




Bearish Rejection Block:
When a price lowhas formed with long wicks on the low(s) of the candlestick(s) and price
reaches down below the body of the candles to run the sellside liquidity out before price moves
higher.




Volume Imbalance: A segment in price where the algorithm delivers inefficiently , it leaves an
imbalance of volume. Price

Balanced Price Range:
Liquidity: The degree to which a market asset or security can be bought or sold in the market
without affecting the asset’s price.

Low Resistance Liquidity:
Liquidity with a low amount of resistance for it to be taken, for example, lows in a down trend.

High Resistance Liquidity:
Liquidity with a high amount of resistance before it can be taken, for example, protected highs in
a down trend.
Liquidity Void: a range in price delivery where one side of the market is shown in wide or long
one sided ranges or candles. Price typically will want to revisit this range or void. Clear
displacement.

Buyside Imbalance, Sellside Inefficiency (BISI): bullish imbalances, there is an inefficiency in
sellside delivery

Sellside Imbalance, Buyside Inefficiecy (SIBI):
bearish imbalances, there is an inefficient in buyside delivery

Power of 3: Accumulation, Manipulation, Distribution

Judas Swing:

3 Drives Pattern:

Draw On Liquidity: Where price is drawing to. This is always either liquidity or an
imbalance/inefficiency.

Consequent Encroachment: .5 of an imbalance/gap/wick

Mean Threshold: .5 of an order block

Inducement: inducing liquidity from retail

SMT Divergence: Smart Money Technique, indicates relative strength/weakness by
comparing /ES, /NQ & DOW.

a crack in correlation of correlated or inversely correlated assets

Institutional Order Flow: The underlying direction of i flows at the institutional level. It is the
higher probable direction of the delivery of price… on the majority of near term candles.
IPDA will look to initiate significant price runs when the IOF is directional and when the state of
delivery has changed into opposing order flow.. at a key PDA.


Look at order blocks

Bullish: every down close candle will provide support and every up close candle is being
broken

Bearish: every up close candle will provide resistance and every down close candle will
be broken

When you’re bearish all of your up close candles should keep price from going higher than
them. They should not be violated. The market should respect this institutional order flow.

Price swings that are bullish, the down close candles are your support aka IOF.
Price swings that are bearish, the up close candles are your resistance aka IOF.
You can trail your stop loss based on the lows/highs of these candles IOF
Blend this IOF with market structure

Internal Range Liquidity: All of the structure and liquidity within the swing high and swing low
(swing range).

inside of the dealing range

   -   When the current trading range is likely to remain. Liquidity voids will fill in - Gap risk
   -   When the current trading range is likely to remain, Fair value gaps will fill in - Gap risk
   -   Orderblocks inside the trading range will be populated with new buy and sell orders
   -   Market maker buy & sell models will form inside trading ranges.

External Range Liquidity: The liquidity of the swing high and swing low points, (liquidity on the
outside of the swing range.)

   -   The current trading range will have buyside liquidity above the range or high.
   -   The current trading range will have sell side below the range or low.
   -   Runs on liquidity seek to pair orders with pending order liquidity in the form of liquidity
       pools.
   -   External range liquidity runs can be low resistance or high resistance in nature.
   -   As a trader, you want your trades to be in low resistance liquidity conditions.
High Resistance Liquidity: Liquidity resting with a large amount of resistance before it can be
swept. ie: uptrending market, (higher highs and higher lows) these highs are going to provide a
lot of resistance.
High high resistance liquidity is usually going to need some form of high impact economic news
driver (NFP, CPI, FOMC) to cut through it aggressively. Without the injection of volatility the high
resistance liquidity is usually well defended and will cause price to stall. This results in price
taking much longer to trade to its objective.
For shorts, you would want to avoid this type of price action since it is high resistance liquidity.
Long positions would make sense here. Targeting high resistance liquidity is lower
probability and we want to avoid doing so. Price is going to stall and take longer to achieve
its objective during these conditions. They are not going to feel effortless and clean like low
resistance liquidity runs do. Thus, we want to avoid high resistance liquidity run signatures.
Old defended highs/lows are high resistance liquidity. These defended high/lows are unlikely to
get ran. You basically want to trade in the direction of the trend. In this scenario, the sellside
liquidity or defended lows are the high resistance liquidity. We want to target the buyside liquidity
which is the low resistance liquidity run.


Low Resistance Liquidity: Liquidity resting with a minimal amount of resistance for it to be
swept. Looks like an impulsive move; displacement. The range from the MSS, to the
displacement high/low is the low resistance liquidity.

This is the ideal condition you want to trade in. Targeting low resistance liquidity is much
higher probability. It is the easiest area to trade in price action. These trades will feel
simple, quick and effortless. Use these low resistance liquidity run signatures to catch
your simple 2R trades.




After a large expansion, displacement type of move lower, once we get that MSS, above the old
high, the market will have an easy time trading back up to the old low. This is the easiest area to
trad in e in the marketplace.
In this scenario, the defended highs are the high resistance liquidity runs. We want to take
shorts targeting the buyside liquidity under the lows. These are our low resistance liquidity runs.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=22XkhpJR5eA&t=336s

Interbank Price Delivery Algorithm (IPDA): Controls price along side with the
commercials(Central Banks) This is part of how I setup myself up as a trader to be more
successful moving into a new trading month.

IBDR: Interbank Dealing Range

Consolidation, Expansion, Retracement, Reversal

SMT Divergence: A break in correlation between positively or negatively correlated
markets.

Power Of 3: Accumulation, Manipulation, Distribution

Immediate Rebalance: efficiently delivered price
When price displaces, an immediate rebalance is instantly delivering price back to the
BISI/SIBI, before continuing higher. With an immediate rebalance, an FVG will never
form, because price has already been efficiently delivered. This basically shows a
willingness for price to expand.



Price Delivery Array Matrix

Bearish Premium Arrays

   -   Old high/low
   -   Rejection block
   -   Bearish JB
   -   FVG
   -   Liquidity Void
   -   Bearish breaker
   -   Mitigation block

Bullish Premium Arrays

    - Mitigation block
    - Bullish breaker
    - Liquidity void
    - FVG
    - Bullish JB
    - Rejection block
    - Old high/low
    -
3 things when he goes to the chart

See where did price come from?

See what price is doing

See where price is going, where it wants to draw to (DOL)

Establish bias and narrative

the algorithm works and pushes price for smart money

the algorithm likes to use the advantage from news
Often time will see big moves aligning with high impact news
the market is going to move regardless of if there is news or not, and it’s a good reason from
price to get to its areas of interest quicker if there’s news involved
(the only thing that really matters is interest rates, long term daily timeframe)
use as many things in confluence as you can

A+ Setup Checklist

   -   Liquidity Grab
   -   MSS + Displacement
   -   FVG/OB above/below .5 fib of displacement range
   -   Return to the FVG/OB
   -   Solid Risk:Reward

price will always make a run for PHOD or PLOD

every day price is going to make a run for the previous day high or previous day low

we focus on time more than price

you want time to be a confluence

we trade during killzones because volatility is in the market, we have a lot of volatility

because the algorithm is on

they say the algorithm
turns back on after 1:30

things that happen during killzones are of more significant

days you don’t trade

fibonacci retracements

bearish, place top of displacement range to bottom

bullish, bottom of displacement range to top

Use the daily to figure out what the range can trade to

The lower time frame tells the story before the higher time frame

do not get mad at your loss
go back to your losses, go back to them, play out what you did wrong etc

Ict takes off half of october, december, then starts demoing half way into jan

/ES /NQ opening prices

0:00 (midnight open) & 8:30am (NY morning session)

Usually there's some form of fake move in the AM

midnight open: 0:00

NY morning session open: 8:30am

equities open: 9:30am

london session open:

asia open:

First I look on the monthly/weekly/daily PD Arrays (mainly focusing on old highs and lows, OB’s,
breakers and FVG’s

After I dive into the 4 hour chart and see where we are with price

In a range, did we take liquidity on a certain side, did we hit a PD Array and move away from
that zone? Stuff like that

How the market moves based off the daily and 4h help give me a sense of market direction

I then look for the closest pd arrays on the 4 and 1 hour and these are where I’ll take my trades

I wait for the market to hit a PD Array then I drop to a 15/5 min to find a setup

This is where I’d want to see the market so a stop hunt and move away from that zone, which is
the HTF pd array.

After the stop hunt, I want the market to break structure and retrace back to the area of the HTF
level. In there you you look for 5/1min pd arrays, mainly OB’s and FVG’s

I would place my stop on the low, if bullish, and high, if bearish targeting the closest pool of
liquidity which usually forms around London KZ or maybe it’s the previous days high or low

institutional market structure
reaching for liquidity
reaching for imbalances

smart money looks at the market with the perspective of liquidity and imbalances


Daily Bias/Analysis
   - previous liquidity taken
   - swing highs/lows (market structure)
   - Market structure shifts (MSS)
   - Imbalances (FVG)
   - Discount or Premium of daily range (use open/close of candles, not wicks) swing high to
       swing low

if your weekly bias is correct

there’s a 70% chance tuesday is the low of the week and thursday is the high of the week

The moat basic way to understand ICT IA to understand that you are learning exactly why the
IPDA algorithm does what it does. ICT didn't invent it, he only cracked the code.

just master the 2022 mentorship model

ict says that is the easiest, most simple model

don’t waste time learning things that aren’t tough in this model

always trade in line with the higher timeframe narrative (higher probability)

everything is more significant on a higher timeframe

running a level means running through it and not looking back

sweeping a level means tapping into it, going above or below, grabbing liquidity and then
reversing back

the bodies of the candles may tend to respect areas. not necessarily the wicks


Also sticking to the times (submit to time) is TRUE. If you veer outside those times things
get weird, and not in a good way. You'll find yourself waiting a long time for price to come
back or move away or whatever it is you want it to do. But in the off times, theres not as
many traders , or money, present and you'll remember him saying that you have to
submit to time.
Always target the low hanging fruit

Use the main timeframe to watch structure,

Don't exit a trade based off 1m-5m structure

Go by the 15m-30m-1h for trade structure

target the low hanging fruit

The algorithm runs certain macros
Macros are certain lists of orders and instructions, do this do that, if then or..
Logic behind how price is being designed, delivered and booked.


retail trading techniques, books, courses etc are made to trick you into blowing your money and
become liquidity for smart money.

they want to sell you the easiest thing so you blow your money in the market. ie: support &
resistance.


Daily Bias
    - Previous liquidity taken?
    - Swing highs / swing lows (market structure) (resting liquidity)
    - Short term highs / short term lows (market structure) (resting liquidity)
    - Relative equal highs / relative equal lows (market structure) (resting liquidity)
    - Market structure shift (MSS)
    - Imbalances ( FVG & OB)
    - Discount or Premium
    - Highers highs, higher lows, lower highs, lower lows
Likes to look for setups from 8:30-11am (sweet spot)
Does not tend to take trades from 12-1
Wait until 1. Typically from 2-3 there is a setup in the afternoon trend




If a day is bullish.. The market rallied all AM session

In the PM session the market should seek the sell side liquidity formed by the lows of
that AM session and then reprice to any BISI (buyside imbalance sellside inefficiency)
once it is there, expect a return to premium inside the range.
The 4 Price Delivery Market Conditions

   -   Consolidation
   -   Expansion
   -   Retracement
   -   Reversal




Daily Bias

Where is price right now
Where did price come from

Check dealing range

Bullish or bearish dealing range

Mark recent swing highs and lows

Weekly Bias

Monday weekly candle, power of 3
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yqio1Ja0lIQ
Draw line from opening price of week
Look for power of 3

Tuesday Wed 70% chance of high of week in bearish scenario

Tuesday wed 70% chance of low of week in bullish scenario

Thursday Chance of high of week

Thursda chance of low of week


When identifying orderblocks, they are going to give you your bias.

price should respect these order blocks.


Bullish price action = bullish PD Arrays




do not trade fomc days, nfp days, cpi days




price is always either rebalancing an imbalance or taking liquidity
ICT Killzones
New York
  - 7:00am - 9:00am
  - The New York session usually has two scenarios - continuation of london’s move or a
      complete reversal on the daily direction.
  - When the daily is in a clear one sided momentum, it is best to look for confirmation of
      that direction from London’s price action.
  - If London agrees with the daily bias, we can anticipate new york to post a continuation
      setup. Reversals require more insight.

London
   - 2:00am - 5:00am
   - EUR & GBP are ideal for this killzone
   - The London Open generally has the highest probability of creating the high or the low of
     the day
   - This helps you determine, when bearish/bullish when the actual high/low of the day is
     going to form


Asia

   -   AUD, NZD, & JPY are ideal for this killzone
   -




Forex Session Times

New York

8:00 - 5:00pm

London
3:00 am - 12




After 5 winning trades, size down a little
This is in preparation for a losing streak

This will flatline your equity draw down.


Money management
https://youtu.be/RtMRykCZtC4

Risk Reward 1:2+

Size down half after 5 winning trades

Size down half after a loss
Continue sizing down half after each loss, until you win

(Need rules to plan for and weather draw down)

5 winning trades is a complete win set cycle

After that streak drop back to the lowest increment for leverage/risk

anytime a significant move is expected, anticipate some measure of a stop hunt / liquidity grab
prior
Only trade FVG’s within displacement range and that are in discount (longs) or premium
(shorts)
target low hanging fruit. liquidity & imbalances
can trail stops based on IOF
sometimes bias will not be clear and the trading conditions will not be high probability because
you don’t have clear conviction one way. when that is the case, just wait and don’t trade it
scale out at order blocks
look for IOF to confirm what side of the market you’re on
Look for PD arrays and IOF to be respected
which ones aren’t , resistance or support pd arrays
this tells you the direction we currently moving in

If we are at a bullish OB if price isn’t sending that higher then the direction isn’t up

Any rallies when bearish should be seen as a stop out or false rally. Vice versa bullish
Timeframes:
W, D, 4h, 1h, 15m, 5m, 3m, 1m

Weekly:
Determine the likely weekly candle expansion. Higher or lower?
Daily: Establish draw on liquidity and daily bias. Use PDH and PDL as targets for price to
ultimately seek. PDH when bullish bias and PDL when bearish bias.

4h:

1h:

15m: Bellwether chart, use for trade management, intraday structure,

5m: use for trade management

5m, 3m, 1m: Use for trade entries on FVG.

use dealing ranges

Trade Checklist

      -   Killzone
      -   Clear Draw On Liquidity
      -   Liquidity Grab
      -   MSS + Displacement
      -   FVG/OB above/below .5 fib of displacement range
      -   Return to FVG
      -   2R+


take 70-80% off at low hanging fruit internal range liquidity (2R)

leave 20-30% for runners / external range liquidity
high probability = feels so one sided that you can’t even make a case for trading the other side
of the market


TradingView Chart Layout

Daily chart
1hr chart
15m chart
5m entry chart on laptop

/ES & /NQ DXY

Indices Killzone:
Morning Session: 8:30am - 11:30pm

Afternoon Session: 1:30pm - 3:30pm


Risk Management:

Account Equity: 100k (2.7k drawdown)
Risk Per Trade: 2%)

size down half after a loss
     - 1st trade of the day 1% loss
     - 2nd trade of the day size down to .5% risk
if you take a 3rd trade of the day size down to .25% risk

size down half after a loss
1-2 trades a day

swing high is the highest point before the big pullback

same with swing low

after this swing high is broken this confirms break of structure

BOS = continuation of structure , breaking a swing point in continuation

Trade Management:

Partials




Money Management:
https://youtu.be/RtMRykCZtC4


4% risk per trade
(work down to 1-2% risk per trade)

1-2% Risk Per Trade

Size down half after a loss

Continue to size down half after losses.
Go back to normal risk once you’ve made half of that first losing trade back.




Stop Loss

Trail based on Institutional Order Flow, in a bearish scenario, the up candles should not be
violated or over taken. The market should respect institutional order flow.

When price moves 50% of expected target range, the stop loss can be trimmed by 25%
Range is entry fill to profit target

When price moves 75% of the expected target range, the stop loss can be trimmed to break
even.
Range is entry fill to profit target
Every element of studying should focus on studying the narrative.

Who is getting harmed, who is getting manipulated and for what reasons


RULES:

   -   Do not try to predict tops and bottoms of the market.
   -   Let the institutional order flow switch and price tell you when we are ready to
       move higher/lower
   -   STAY ALIGNED WITH THE ALGORITHM
   -   Stay aligned with daily bias and high timeframe orderflow
   -   Never trade against your daily bias
   -   Submit to time and price
   -   Only trade in during killzones
   -   Only long in a discount
   -   Only short in a premium
   -   Target the low hanging fruit
   -   Low resistance liquidity runs
   -   Only exit a trade if you are stopped or hit your profit target. the rest is noise
   -   Do not trade on FOMC and NFP days
   -   Do not trade AM sessions after large range days
   -   large range days usually lead to consolidation & sub optimal price action
   -   Trade in the direction of your bias and higher timeframe
   -   IOF should be respected , order blocks

Tips
    -   Aim for the low hanging fruit as targets, take off bulk of position at these low hanging fruit
    -   Only trade low resistance liquidity run signatures
    -   “70% of your time analyzing these markets should be on the daily timeframe. Once you
        can understand where the market is likely to reach for next, it becomes easy.” - ICT
    -   Candles should wick in FVG, should not close full body through. They should respect the
        FVG
    -   Become an artist with your chart logs
    -   Take paper notes
    -   Note your sticking points then move on
    -   Let price show you
    -   with FOMC, the new york session prior to FOMC is usually chop, sloppy conditions,
        building liquidity to use the news driver to send price wherever
   -
For me right now it is intraday structure and aligning with the direction

after a large range day you can expect consolidation, seek and destroy environments.

watch the order flow, bullish / support order blocks and fvgs should be respected on kings

bearish /resistance pd arrays will be respected on shorts

High probability conditions with ICT concepts is the algorithm presenting something in
price that is so one sided and obvious that it is difficult to make a justification for the
opposing side of the market.

Use ICT market structure
TRADE ALIGNED WITH THE HIGHER TIMEFRAME STRUCTURE, BIAS and LOGIC

Align with the daily chart. Submit yourself to what the daily chart is doing. Align your trade ideas
with it.

IOF should be respected, use that to help manage trades

“If you’re linking all of your trade ideas based on the logic of higher time frames, you’re going to
avoid a lot of losing trades.”
Anytime a significant price move is expected; always anticipate some measure of a stop hunt
just use the swing range measure discount premium

get into a daily routine

get mind and eyes used to analyzing

break of structure , align with bias daily
intraday bias daily
you’re daily bias is not always going to be right
u have to be able to adjust on your lower timeframes
follow the structure

mainly use the 15m 1h for structure intraday

Backtest daily

Know my routine for setups

your trade ideas must be in alignment with the present narrative.
Get aligned with the algorithm
stay aligned with the higher timeframes and institutional order flow

don’t take trades against the higher tf trend and order flow
don’t take trades against your daily bias
Watch price, understand what price is doing, let price show u, don't try to predict it. Narrate it
Don't try to pick the tops and bottoms

Just catch part of the expansion after price has shown you

Watch for power of 3 judas swing




I Am The Algo Analysis Routine / Model

Weekly Range Expansion
  - What is our weekly bias? Where is the weekly candle likely to expand, lower or higher?
      Power of 3, weekly candle delivery

Daily Draw On Liquidity
   -   Where is the draw on liquidity on the daily chart? (ie: liquidity pool, imbalance)
   -   Where is price likely to draw towards on the daily? (PD arrays, equal highs lows, etc.)

Narrative
   - Interbank traders view price in terms of liquidity and imbalances. This is what price
       draws towards. This is our #1 priority to look for when we sit down at the charts. This is
       how we build a narrative. Narrative leads towards a draw on liquidity. A draw on liquidity
       gives us our daily bias. This will be derived from our long term perspective (4h, Daily)

Ask yourself:
   - Are we going higher for buy side liquidity or to rebalance a SIBI?
   - Are we going lower for sell side liquidity or to rebalance a BISI?

Time
   - Submit to time.
   - Stay aligned with the algorithm and only trade during killzones.

Liquidity
   - Wait for a liquidity grab to occur

MSS
  -    Wait for a market structure shift with displacement to occur after a liquidity grab.

FVG
  -    Identify fair value gaps within the displacement range to enter your trade.
  -    Measure the discount/premium, only take long’s in a discount and shorts in a premium.

Essentials To Trading The Daily Bias

   - All daily bias is attaining the likelihood of an up close or down close day.
   - Look for Intermediate Term Highs/Lows and Short Term Highs/Lows.
   - Use dxy to confirm
Look for key turning points, ITH/ITL , key swing high/lows,

Check and see, are we coming off a liquidity grab, (a run above an old high/low?)

Bullish bias, price should seek PDH and show an inability to breach PDL.
Bearish bias, price should seek PDL and show an inability to breach PDH.

Very rarely do you see both PDH and PDL traded through in one daily candle.
When this happens it usually signals a reversal on the daily.

This is called an outside day, leading to a reversal.
when you go live with the ict model,
trade with 0 emotion. have risk management rules in place. 1% per trade? 0.5?

remove P&L if you have to. know your $$ risk based on the fvg candle high and then remove
P&L if necessary.

make monthly withdrawals from apex
give yourself a budget monthly


Daily Bias
Keys To Daily Bias

   -   Everyday bias is unrealistic
   -   Determine the likely weekly expansion
   -   Look for obvious liquidity in that direction
   -   Identify imbalances in price delivery top down
   -   Focus on the high or medium calendar event dates
   -   Look for directional price runs in killzones intraday

is price action/ market structure bullish or bearish?

are resistance or support PD arrays being respected

what did price most recently do?
identify any MSS after liquidity has been taken

Where has price most recently come from?

Where is the nearest FVG or liquidity?

What price level changes your bias?




daily time frame and bias
“there are going to be times when you don’t know.”

Sometimes daily bias isnt clear, WHEN IT ISNT, JUST WAIT AND SIT ON HANDS
Mark daily swing range with fib. (premium or discount?)
Do not try and pick tops and bottoms.

Look for setups that are about to target a specific pool of liquidity
Clear idea of where price is going to go

when institutional orderflow is established price should respect it

IOF is orderblocks and market structure

Daily Bias
Determine the likely weekly expansion:
Does it look like it's going to run to an old low/high? Is it trying to run to an imbalance above or
below? Or is it likely not to move because there is no data for it that week. Look for the direction
of the weekly expansion move.

The best setups occur when calendar events are in play, and the setups occur around that same
time.

Ignore the “both sides” type movement

once open interest is higher on following month, rollover to next months contract
use bar chart.com to see it
ict doesn’t trade on mondays

Have an area that invalidates your bias

Price should respect bearish movement (bearish ob’s, fvg’s etc)

in a bullish example tuesday is 70% chance of being low of the week

in a bearish example tuesday is 70% chance of being high of the week

swing range

most recent swing high and swing low on that specific time frame

don’t try to predict anything

trend is your friend

Look for points of interest

Old highs and lows, REQH/REQL, imbalances order blocks etc
Once we get to POI, look on lower timeframe for FVG model.


Pay attention to the weekly range. Power of 3




timeframes work together

price will make the same signatures on all different timeframes

the high timeframes act like a boundary

every time frame works together
and the timeframe above acts like a boundary or framework for the ones below

if price breaks out of that boundary, you have to go back to the higher timeframe to get a new
perspective

order blocks give you your bias, they act as a sort of confirmation for what side of the
market you’re on

these order blocks should be respected by price

u can trail your stops based on them as price should respect them

the lower timeframes will give hints at what the higher timeframes are trying to do

Mark PDL, PDH, Weekly Open, Midnight Opening Price, 8:30 Opening Price




W, D,4H general direction & “bias”

1h & 15m structure intraday and framework
15m get in sync intraday

1h 15m giving hints to what the higher timeframe going to do. 15m is your “bellweather” time
frame

5m and below for trade entries using FVG model

backtest every week on the weekends. go back, figure out what you could’ve done better.
record what you did right, and how you can optimize it.
What were your mistakes? Were they technical, emotional, etc?
It’s all about refinement and constant improvement. Review every week and your
trades/journal. Backtest every week.

looking for price to reach down into a point of interest
15m / 1h / 4h / D
then looking for the youtube model to form inside of that area


use dealing ranges, master them
Pay attention to what PD Arrays are being respected/disrespected.
For example, if we are respecting bearish PD Arrays and disrespecting bullish PD arrays, price
is showing you it’s hand.

you need to be able to read price action and build a narrative

form a storyline around what it’s telling us

learn ICT market structure

go through braveheart pdf

5 points a day

25 points a week

the algorithm is always going to be right

build a storyline around what the algorithm is doing

there is going to be times with you get your overall draw on liquidity and narrative wrong
or
you simply don’t know based on the chart and have to wait for more clarity.

When you’re able to justify both sides of the market, that is low probability

Your trades should feel extremely one sided and sure, same with DOL and bias.

Pay attention to what PD arrays order flow is respecting and disrespecting
Is price respecting bullish pd arrays or bearish pd arrays

you want to trade low resistance liquidity runs
and take majority off at low hanging fruit
work on framing a narrative daily

understand why fvg or pd arrays won’t work at times

IPDA Insights
Institutional Order Flow & Secrets of Efficient Price Delivery

This is how the markets book, how price is created.

Interbank Dealing Range:
Range where both buy side and sell side has been ran
Based on how the algorithm refers to old data

Find the interbank dealing range

The dealing ranges are on every time frame
Be able to build a bias, dol, narrative,

Every price range needs to be efficiently delivered

External to internal liq, internal to external liq. Rinse and repeat

study weekly profiles

study new york session daily profiles

Draw On Liquidity creates bias
Narrative is how price should deliver to the draw on liquidity
this is the foundational premise for your analysis

learn break away gaps

40:00 into ict 2023 episode 1

The bus comes around at the same time every day!

low resistance liquidity runs = low hanging fruit

take LRLR signatures, grab 2R and be satisfied
2R is all you need to pay the bills

follow the displacement for the DOL
Follow the orderflow

SIT ON 15m chart, 1h (bellwether)
use the 15m for structure always
don’t get fooled by 5m structure

ALIGN WITH THE 15m, 1h before looking to enter

use the 15m & 1h orderflow and structure (MSS) to confirm price intention

1h orderflow and structure is key to determine dol, narrative etc

keep an eye on 15m, 1h structure (MSS) to confirm the structure shift

be fluid with price be able to switch on a dime

take profit along the way

KEEP A DETAILED TRADERSYNC JOURNAL

only limit orders on entries. don’t chase price. be okay with it leaving without me.

be okay with missing the bus. it comes around at the same time every day.
hold 30% runners for external, PDH/PDL

let order flow dictate where stop should be and how to trail. don’t trail too tight, give trades room
to breathe.

Target liquidity or pd array from matrix

I try to hold for daily range, will take partial at 1st opposing PD array beyond equilibrium and
hold runner for external liquidity. 1.5-3R is what I go for, all comes down to what price offers. SL
is probably about 7.5pt on average, its rare I take trades with max 10pt SL

Not much more to it than that, pay yourself at low hanging fruit and hold on for terminus

be okay with missing movrs and not getting files
be okay with missing the bus. remember the bud comes around the same time everyday

take your 2R trade and dip. you don’t need to catch all of the move, and you don’t need to catch
every move.

Build a narrative
POI’S: Daily/4H/1H
Observe on 15m until I have a reason to cycle through ltf for entry
5m 4m 3m 2m 1m entry model

I think in its simplest form, '22 is taking advantage of daily PO3 within the NY killzone, don't
make it any more complicated than that. Wait for immediate BSL/SSL on 15m to the left of 8:30
to be swept and then wait for indication the '22 model is setting up. You know the rest for entry
criteria.

ICT basically zeroes us in on the manipulation of the PO3 to be positioned for the distribution.

we just just look for a run on liquidity above below midnight open PO3

Good, price needs to pair traders who chase the short breakdown inducement with smart
money who want to buy those stops at a discount. At any time, PDH or PDL can be draw on
liquidity but you look at the order blocks from 1H and 15M to see if the order flow is subservient
to daily/4H bias. If daily bias is bullish and bull OB are getting blown through then price has yet
to reach a relative discount and take out SSL to begin respecting bull OB on 1H/15m etc. So
price needs to still decay from a premium before ripping higher. Always a dip before a rip, or a
climb before the dive.




                                                            🐂
This is all I do, straight up. You see my entry checklist in lower right with daily/1H bias. Price
was squeezing into a deeper premium and on the 1H still          so SSL needed to be swept prior
to any long setup forming. Rest was history. Pick w/e htf PD array you want to exit position at
You can treat the hourly as your daily bias, so yes a reduced size counter trend trade. Or just
wait for the two to be in alignment

You see how OB/FVG and order flow can be used to enter long after 22 model
discount/premium entries have come and gone?

look for intraday high/low that forms right before 9:30 equities open

Look at 1h orderflow and establish bias/DOL

study cj_fx

chart es & nq

learn SMT for added confluence
SMT only works if you have an existing HTF narrative/bias because you are looking for
confirmation of bull or bear signals

look for layered FVG’s for added confluence
FVG in a breaker block added confluence

stay aligned with higher timeframe bias / narrative

look at orderflow
see what is being respected/disrespected

follow the displacement for DOL

study cj_fx

get his 2022 model entry criteria

define entry model criteria to a T
to the last detail

then backtest extensively

Do not trade NFP days
Do not trade FOMC days

bodily candle close invalidates the fvg, wicks do not

SMT divergence can help you confirm if it’s a true stop hunt because if one fails to run stops, it
gives a strong indication
SMT only works if you have an existing HTF narrative/bias because you are looking for
confirmation of bull or bear signals

pay attention to dealing ranges 15m , 1h, 4h, D

be able to switch on a dime and be fluid with the bias/DOL. align with IPDA

SMT for added confluence (ES, NQ, DXY)

15m highs and lows, BSL/SSL, will dictate MSS for me from now on

OHLC is all you need, add time elements and understanding of time and the macros of the
algorithm

sessions highs and lows are very important for liquidity that gets targeted


These ob’s should support price and be respected until we reach our higher timeframe objective

Orderflow should be respected

You have to know where price is likely to go to before you even think of putting on a
trade.

time is the most important then price.

there’s 3 macros that run between 3:00pm and 4:00pm
not every day does all 3 occur, usually 2 but always at least 1.

highest probability longs are in a deep discount of the range, and we want to target premium pd
arrays

highest probability shorts are in a deep premium of the range and we want to target discount
arrays

we look to trade from one PD array to the next, ideally from premium to discount / discount to
premium

if you can’t come up with a narrative and dol, no trade

if the dol and narrative is not clear, sit out, wait for clarity
bias = what direction price is going to trade in

narrative = how is the market going to get there




when the DOL is higher, bullish order flow should be respected

bullish order blocks should act as support




pyramiding is valid until crossing equilibrium of the target range




Price Cycles

Consolidation
   - When price is accumulating/ranging in an equilibrium state

Expansion
   - Price impulsively breaks out of consolidation leaving behind inefficiencies in price
   - Expansion looks like strong displacement

Retracement
   - When price pulls back and redelivers to the inefficiencies in price and induces liquidity.
   - All retracements do is target inefficiencies and induce liquidity.

Reversal
   - Continuation move away from the consolidation phase after the retracement.


Monday
likely accumulation, look for

Tuesday
high likelihood of being a large range day

Wednesday
high probability of consolidating
Thursday


Friday

If we are bullish, there is a 70% chance the low of week occurs on a monday tuesday or
wednesday.

90% of the time if Monday creates the low or high of the week Thursday caps the weekly range.

ES ORDER FLOW IS KING

FOLLOW THE ORDER FLOW


                                                                 🧲
Here's the thing...that is the classic/breaker IDEAL retracement entry. However, you've been
neglecting all the continuation entries available until terminus  is reached

I mean OB/FVG/VIB are all far game after the classic/breaker setup occurs

Just have to get used to continuation entries

I think what would also be beneficial is to qualify HTF PDA as part of your model. I.e if it isn't a
15m +PDA I am not interested

always indentify the current market condition
consolidation expansion retracement reversal

90% of the time if Monday creates the low or high of the week Thursday caps the weekly range.


price is always doing 1 of 2 things; either drawing to imbalance or liquidity pool

time & liquidity poools (power of 3, OHLC)




When are we likely to consolidate, S&D

   -     At equilibrium of HTF range
   -     When we have red folder news late in the week and none early in the week
   -     Pre-major red folder news like: FOMC, CPI, NFP
   -     In london session when the asian range expanded extremely large
   -   In new york session when the london session expanded extremely large

Some more useful 22 mentorship notes:
(huge shout out to the creators, their twitter handles are attached)

https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1VSLmplzEXoEymr9mj9V8sxKRkqjonJ4G
(@bravehearttrade)

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1f0SGuIAtdR-orFX4a6cWBXE1aZuDN4C9/view?usp=drives
dk (@_amtrades)

https://arjoio.notion.site/ICT-2022-Mentorship-Notes-97a31979307a48f5ab11bc553fb04ffe
(@arjoio)
