Market Structure Masterclass
           Episode 1

         Inside Market Structure
             By Pat x Ritesh
Internal Topics
Introduction

1 - Overlooking Basic Market Trend & Price action

-Bullish Trend, Bearish Trend, Ranging environment

-Internal & External Structure



2 - Identifying A Trend Reversal

-Break of Structure, Bullish & Bearish

-Differentiating between BOS & COS



3 - Identifying Structures

-Weak Structures

-Structure Reality

-Structure In Detail
Introduction
What is market structure? - Market structure is simply the ﬂow of whatever direction the market is moving. It is formed by
price making swing highs and swing lows. These points can be used as ‘support & resistance’ and will hold until they do not.
Market structure is developed price action.




Why is market structure important? - MS is seen as the simplest (once understood) and one of the most important part of
trading and ﬁnding a trend in price. Once you understand ms and the idea behind it you will receive great beneﬁt. You want to
trade with the ﬂow not against it.
              Part 1 -
Overlooking Basic MS & Price Action

      Bullish Trend, Bearish Trend
         Ranging Environment
      Internal & External Structure
Market Structure
There are 3 types of market structure. Bullish, Bearish & Ranging environment. In this section we will cover all three.

A bullish trend consists of price making higher lows & higher highs. (Uptrend)

A bearish trend is the act of price making lower lows & lower highs. (Downtrend)

A ranging market is price action before the market starts a directional Trend. Also known as accumulation or distribution.
Bullish Trend
-Bullish trend is formed with higher highs & higher lows.

-Your key point of interest is your Higher Lows. This is where your trend has originated from and if your
trend is strong each higher low should make a higher high in price.

-Price can only form a true higher low swing point if leads to a new higher high. (examples on next slide)
Example One: Price is in a higher low and higher high trend. The same trend we saw on the previous slide. We are
in a bullish trend. We are consistently forming higher lows that lead to new higher highs.


                                          Image on the right is showing the
                                          same trend but this time a higher
                                          low does not lead to a new higher
                                          high straight away but actually
                                          makes a lower high (written in
                                          red). This lower high then leads to
                                          a new higher low (red) which then
                                          leads to a Higher high.
This brings me to what I spoke of in the last slide. Your higher low
cannot be a key swing point if it did not lead to a new higher high. It is
still a higher low but not a key swing point in your market structure
until the higher high has been formed. Your higher low (green) is still
your key swing point as it was the original low before the new high.
(after BOS).
Example Two:
Example Three:
Bearish Trend
-Bearish trend is formed with lower highs & lower lows.

-Your key point of interest is your lower high. This is where your trend has originated from and if your trend
is strong each lower high should make a lower low in price.

-Price can only form a true lower high swing point if leads to a new lower low. (examples on next slide)
Example One: Price is forming lower highs and lower low price action. We are in a bearish trend (downtrend). Each
lower high is leading to a lower low.


Now explaining the same
thing as I did for the bullish
trend scenarios but opposite.
Like I said before.



Your lower low can only be
conﬁrmed if it has originated
from a true lower high swing
                                                                                                            Higher low




point. Example here:
Example Two:
Example Three:
Ranging Environment
A ranging market is very common in crypto. Price spends more time ranging than it actually does trending. If you can ace trading
a range then you can be very comfortable in most PA that is thrown at you.

Instead of price making consistent highs and lows, price will ﬁnd a range high and a range low. Almost a key ‘support &
resistance’ area at a low and at a high. Price will bounce in between these levels resulting in a range being formed.

Ranges will constantly change and you will need to
update your highs and lows as PA develops. It is all
personal preference at the end of the day.

I see ranges as:

-Accumulation before an uptrend.

-Distribution before a downtrend.
Identifying A Range:

Like I said in the previous slide your
range can really vary depending on
how PA develops and which highs and
lows act as a consistent reversal point
for price.

Most of the time as price comes into a
ranging environment you mark out the
ﬁrst swing high and ﬁrst swing low
points. These should act as key
reversal points for price to act at.
Internal & External Structure
-Any time frame you trade with has market structure. Each time frame builds up market structure to develop into a higher time
frame market structure. The higher the time frame the higher the conviction for your trend.

-When you are watching pa develop you may not have noticed that you are watching internal structure develop inside the
external structure & that external structure is the internal structure for the next external structure. It is one big cycle.

-Depending on what time frames you trade it is
so important to understand the structure and
the trend you are trading with or against. When
trading, it is a key to understand that trend is
your friend. Do not play against the trend.
     Marked with black dots is the
     H4 trend. Price making lower
     highs and lower lows
     (downtrend). This is your
     external structure. This is the
     trend you are focusing on.

     Do not ﬁght this trend.
H4

     Moving into H2 time frame
H2   you can start to see the red
     highlighted points. These are
     just some of the swing points
     that are making up the
     internal structure. Sure some
     of them are making higher
     highs and higher lows
     (uptrend). But your external
     structure is still down.
                 Swing high/low points marked in black.
 Example:        This is your market structure. Red is the
                 internal structure and can be traded as
                 well. Look at PA as internal and external
                 structure. Inside these H4 candles you will
                 have price action made up of lower time
                 based candles which will run as their own
            H4   structure.
                              If the H4 is trending down, try
                              and trade the lower time
                              frames in the same direction
                              until the H4 has a trend
                              reversal. Try not trade against
                              the trend at all times.

                              Even though some red points
                              are trending up, higher time
                              frame is still trending down. If
                              you are trading price up here
                              you are trading against the
H2                            trend until the swing high
                              point (black) is broken.
             Part 2 -
  Identifying A Trend Reversal

Break of Structure, Bullish & Bearish
Differentiating between BOS & COS
Break Of Structure (BOS)
-Break of structure is a terminology used for PA traders when market structure has broken.
-In a uptrend it is when price puts in a higher high.
-In a downtrend it is seen as price putting in a lower low.
-This is when understanding true market structure and true high/low swing points is very important. If your
market structure is misunderstood then your break of structure may be invalid thus meaning your outlook
on the current trend is wrong.
-Once you fully understand your key swing highs and lows in your trend. Finding the break of that structure
begins to be fairly straight forward.
Bullish BOS:
As I said in the previous slide. Bullish BOS is when you are putting in a higher high in your uptrend. If you
are conﬁdent from what we went over in the market structure section you will remember that your higher
high must come from a true higher low also. (Bullish continuation)

Example One:
Example Two:
Example Three:
Example Four:
Bearish BOS:
Bearish break of structure is as you would expect, the opposite to what we have just gone through. In a
downtrend your continuation for the trend is when price is forming lower lows. Thus price is making a lower
low and breaking structure to the downside. (Bearish continuation)

Example One:
Example Two:
Example Three:
Differentiating between BOS & COS
-Knowing the difference between Break Of Structure & Change Of Structure is very important when
following the trend and staying on top of trading with the trend rather than against it.
-Once you have an eye for when the trend has ﬂipped it becomes fairly straight forward. Again this relies on
your understanding towards market structure aspect of trading and making sure you have the correct highs
and lows marked out.
-The higher the time frame of the change in structure the higher the conviction you should have for a ﬂip in
trend.
     BOS = Break of structure, market structure breaks but in the same direction it is already moving.
COS = Change of Structure, market ﬂips in the direction of which way it was trending. This is your indication
               for searching for trades in the opposing direction market was just moving.
Change Of Structure:
The change of structure is when you have either a change in lows or highs for your current trend. For example:

       If price is in an uptrend, you are making
       higher lows and higher highs. If price
       was now to make a lower low, this is
       your COS. Trend has changed.



       Vice versa, if you are in a downtrend,
       price will be making lower lows and
       lower highs. If price was now to make a
       higher low this is your COS.
Important!!!
BOS & COS

Example One:
Example Two:
Example Three:
       Part 3 -
Identifying Structure

  Weak Structures
  Structure Reality
  Structure In Detail
Weak Structures

  -A WEAK uptrending structure is
  caused by a failure of the price to make
  a new Higher high.




   -A WEAK down trending structure is
   caused by a failure of the price to make
   a new Lower low.
Difference between Strong and Weak Structures:
-Strong highs/lows: A structural point will be conﬁrmed as strong, when it can break through the latest opposite
zone. (for example: demand will be strong if it can break through the last supply)
-Weak highs/lows: A structural point will be conﬁrmed as weak if it can't break through the latest opposite zone and
rejects on it.
 Weak Highs are formed when it does
 not lead to a new low in a downtrend.



 Weak Lows are formed when price
 does not lead to a new high in an
 uptrend.
- If a weak high breaks a weak low, it will not make it strong.
Structure reality
-We know that the market does not always go as
simple as the markups previously seen, so now we
will look at a more realistic way to mark structure on
a real market.
-In uptrend, buyers (demand) have control of the
market. When price makes a break of structure
(BOS) we should expect the price to make a decent
pullback with multiple mini structure (sometimes)
also know as your internal structure to create the
new Low of the uptrend.
-In a downtrend, sellers (supply) have control of the
market. When price makes a Break Of Structure, it
creates the new Lower low of this trend. We should
expect a decent pullback after the new Lower low to
create the new lower high of this trend. Structure
breaks are only conﬁrmed by candle body, not wicks.


                  Without Noise                         Reality
Structure In Detail:
The Swing Structure:

Larger structural ranges created when
price is trending.


The Sub Structure:

Corrective structure within the
swing structure consisting of weak
highs and weak lows. Example
denotes the same asset but in mid
timeframe with substructure.
The Minor Structure:

Minor structure comes under the substructure and often we denote them as lower time frame noisy
structure. It consists of various weak highs and weak lows but the point to be noted here is that the break of
minor structures is not equal to break of sub structures and swing structures (less valid). As price is mostly
all a fractal we can see the same mechanism in all timeframes.
Homework:
-Find two examples of a break in structure.
-Find two examples of a change in structure.
-Find one example of a Swing Structure with
Sub-Structure.
-Find two examples of price making a weak high.
-Find two examples of price making a weak low.


You will be looking at $ETH for this and during the
month, 1st April - 30th April 2022 on the H1 time
frame. Enjoy!
End of MSM Episode 1
