MARKET
STRUCTURE
MASTERY




Set up your charts for trading success with proven
        methods to map out price action.




                FINANCIAL HIDEOUT
Follow @FinancialHideout                                   FinancialHideout.com




                             COPYWRITE
                     This ebook is copyrighted material.

      Copyright ©, Sam Sutton of Financial Hideout, 2024
    All rights reserved. No parts of this book may be copied,
           distributed, or published in any form without
                  permission from the publisher.

    For permissions contact: Financialhideout@gmail.com.
       This book is comprised of research and personal
                          experience.
    We reserve any rights to use our name, logo and images
                         in the ebook.

                           Cover designed by Sam Sutton
                               Edited by Sam Sutton

                Published by Financial Hideout,
    financialhideout@gmail.com, and financialhideout.com

                            The second form of contact:
                           Instagram: @FinancialHideout




©                                                                     Page 2/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                                         FinancialHideout.com




                 IMPORTANT NOTE:
                                  Disclaimer:
         The contents of this ebook are for informational purposes only
          and are not intended to be used as financial or investment
        advice. The information provided is based on my own personal
       research and experiences. Before making any financial decisions,
           seeking advice from a qualified and registered financial or
            investment adviser and conducting thorough research is
                                   important.

                                    Disclosure:
           Please note that I may hold positions in some of the assets
            discussed in this ebook. These positions are based on my
          research and analysis and are intended for educational and
         informational purposes only. Any trading decisions you make
       should be based on your independent research and analysis, and
       should not be influenced by my positions or opinions. I encourage
         you to always conduct your due diligence before making any
                               investment decisions.

                                    Updates:
        Upon purchasing this ebook, you will have access to a lifetime of
         updated versions, so you can always stay up-to-date with the
                    latest insights and trading techniques.

                                       Social Media:
                           Instagram handle: @financialhideout
                                 TikTok: @financialhideout




©                                                                           Page 3/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                                                   FinancialHideout.com




            Hey Legend, thank you for grabbing
                ‘Market Structure Mastery’

    Before you get started on the guide and leveling up
                    your trading game

                   I just want to ask a huge favour...

     These guides take me a little time to make so it
     would mean the world to me if you could take 30
              seconds to leave it a 5* ↓

                              Thanks Again,
                           Sam @financialhideout
                      Click Here to leave 5*.
                   Click Here to write a review.




                            Financial Hideout
                   Helping traders fast-track their journey to profitability.
                      Thank you again for being a part of the journey.



©                                                                                     Page 4/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                                               FinancialHideout.com




    Market Structure Introduction:
    In this short guide, I’m going to teach you my approach to one of the most
    important concepts a trader can learn when it comes to analysing price
    charts, which is Market Structure.

    It doesn’t matter what market you’re trading or what strategy you're using if
    you do not understand market structure you’re basically trading blind.

    Why? Because without understanding market structure you could be trading
    the best trading strategy in the world and still come up short because you
    haven’t identified the underlying behaviour of price.

    By mastering market structure, you’ll be able to map out the story of the
    market to determine: Who’s in control (Buyers or Sellers), gain clarity over
    where price is currently trading, whether the trend is likely to continue or
    reverse and gain more confidence in your entry & exits.

    In addition to all of that, Market Structure Mastery will help you align
    yourself with the right side of the market to increase the risk/reward of your
    trades and the probability of a trade playing out successfully.

    Think of it like this, market structure is the foundation of technical analysis in
    which we can build trades around, determine our risk management and
    everything else in between. It should be the first thing any trader maps out
    on a chart before even considering their entry into the market.

    So let’s get started!


                                                             Profit


                                                          Everything
                                                             Else



                                                      Market Structure




©                                                                                 Page 5/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                             FinancialHideout.com




            To simplify this guide I’ve separated
               market structure into 4 parts:
                    Part 1: Buyers & Sellers Markets

                    Part 2: Highs, Lows and Swings

                           Part 3: Trend Mastery

                Part 4: Mapping Structure like a pro




©                                                               Page 6/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                                               FinancialHideout.com




    Part 1: Buyers Markets &
    Sellers Markets.
    In this part, I’m going to teach you the simplest method to identify whether
    the chart you're looking at is controlled by buyers, sellers or neither.

    By understanding this concept you’ll be able to open up a chart and
    immediately determine the sentiment of the market as well as who’s in
    control.

    Put simply ‘buyers market’ is just another way of saying ‘bull market’ a
    market run buy ‘bulls’ (buyers). Where a ‘sellers market’ is just another way
    of saying ‘bear market’ a market that is run by ‘bears’ (sellers). I’ll start by
    showing you a buyers market.

    Buyers Markets:
    Buyers markets can be defined by positive sentiment from optimistic
    investors/traders alike. During a buyer's market, the bulls are firmly in
    control of price.

    Price will be making higher highs a higher lows, trading from the bottom left
    of the screen to the top right. During these markets we’ll want to position
    ourselves with the buyers and look for long trades, we’ll talk more on that
    later, for now here’s an example.




©                                                                                  Page 7/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                                               FinancialHideout.com



    Sellers Markets:
    Seller's markets can be defined by negative sentiment from cautious
    investors/traders alike. During a seller's market, the bears are firmly in
    control of the price.

    Price will be making lower lows and lower highs, trading from the top left of
    the screen to the bottom right. During sellers markets, we’ll want to look for
    opportunities to short the market. Here's an example of what a sellers
    market looks like:




                           Financial Hideout ©




    Ranging Markets:
    In ranging markets, neither buyers nor sellers are in control, resulting in
    balanced sentiment among investors/traders.

    During this phase prices move within a defined range, fluctuating between
    two price points, reflecting indecision. Traders may capitalise on short-term
    price movements within the range.

    Personally, I tend to avoid trading ranging markets until the next directional
    move is visible. Due to the lack of momentum and low-risk rewards.




©                                                                                 Page 8/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                                                                FinancialHideout.com




    Part 2: High, Lows and Swings
    Before we get into part 3: Trend Mastery, let’s take a look at how to identify:
    Swing lows, Swing Highs, Higher Highs, Higher Lows, Lower Lows and
    Lower highs. We’ll begin with Swing Highs and Lows.

    Swing Highs:
    Swing highs are areas in the market where the price reaches a peak to create
    a higher high than any surrounding price in the timeframe. These highs are
    only created when price breaks the prior high to make a new high.
                                       Swing High (The highest high in the timeframe)




                                                  Financial Hideout ©




    Swing Lows:
    Swing lows are areas in the market where the price creates a trough in the
    market that is lower than any surrounding price. These lows are only created
    when price breaks the most recent lower low.




                                    Swing Low (The lowest low in the timeframe)


    Strong highs & Lows:
    To determine whether a swing high or swing low is strong keep this in mind.

    A swing highs goal is to create a lower low in the market as the momentum
    from the high was strong enough to take out the most recent higher low.



©                                                                                                  Page 9/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                                                                 FinancialHideout.com



    Making the high strong. Whereas a weak swing high is one that failed to
    push price lower resulting in the formation of a higher low, i’ll get to why this
    is important to understand in just a moment.

    First here’s an example of strong swing highs and weak swing highs:
                       Strong Swing High




                                                                       Weak Swing High
                                          St
                                            ro
                                            ng
                                               Mo
                                                 me
                                                 nt
                                                    um



                       Financial Hideout ©



            Higher Low                                                            Lack of Momentum
                                                                                  Creates Higher Low
                                  Move from swing high takes out
                                  higher low to create a swing low

    The goal of a swing low is to create a higher high in the market as the
    momentum from that area was strong enough to take out the most recent
    lower high.

    Whereas a weak swing low is one that lacks the momentum to push the
    price higher which results in the formation of a Lower high,

    Here’s an example of strong swing lows and weak swing lows:
                    Move from swing low takes out lower
                        high to create a swing high
                                                                     Lower High
          Lower High                                                                 Lack of Momentum
                                                                                     Creates Lower high
                                       m
                                      ntu
                                   me
                                  Mo
                               ng
                              ro
                             St




                                                                           Weak Swing Low
                Strong Swing Low


    Highs & Lows:
    Higher highs are formed in strong trending markets when the price trades
    higher after the initial swing high. The initial higher high after a swing high
    confirms a shift in trend and likely a continuation the upside.

    Higher lows are formed when the price pulls back after the impulsive move
    higher that created the higher high.


©                                                                                                      Page 10/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                                                       FinancialHideout.com



    A Higher low is considered strong when the move from that area was strong
    enough to take out the most recent higher high, this is considered a break of
    structure. We’ll cover that more in part 3.

    Higher highs and higher lows are considered bullish structure and the faster
    the move from the low the stronger we can consider it. Let’s take a look.

                                                   Higher High
                           Recent higher
                            high broken
                                       BOS
                                                   Financial Hideout ©

                                                                  Higher Low


                                 Strong Higher Low



    Lower lows are formed in strong trending markets when the price trades
    lower after the initial swing low. The initial lower low after a swing low
    confirms a shift in trend and a likely continuation to the downside.

    Lower highs are formed when the price retraces upward after the move
    lower that created the lower low. A lower high is considered strong when
    the move from that area was strong enough to take out the most recent
    lower low, this is considered a break of structure. Again we'll cover that
    more in part 3, where I’ll show you how to put it all together for trend
    identification.

    Lower highs and lower lows are considered bearish structure, and the faster
    the move from the high, the stronger we can consider it. Let's take a look.
                            Strong Lower High

                                                         Lower High


                                     BOS
                      Recent lower
                       low broken
                                                Lower Low




©                                                                                        Page 11/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                                                                           FinancialHideout.com



    Importance of Strong/Weak Highs & Lows:
    The importance of understanding highs and lows in the market allows us
    when trading to determine weak areas in the market to target and strong
    areas to build our trades around. Whether it’s price patterns, supply &
    demand, or support/resistance by understanding the most significant points
    in the market we can increase our strike rate when planning trades.

    Key trading tips when it comes to highs & lows:
    In a buyers market, I like to target weak highs from strong lows. What this
    means is building entries around a strong higher low and then targeting a
    take profit at last weak high where price is likely to be more reactive.

    Here’s an example:                                          Weak higher high


                                                                                   Target
                           Weak higher high


                                            Target


         Financial Hideout ©

                                                                            Strong Higher Low to
                                                                               identify entries

                                         Strong Higher Low to
                                            identify entries


    In a sellers market, I like to target weak lows from strong highs. What this
    means is building my entry based off of a strong lower high and then
    targeting a take profit around the most recent lower low.

    Here’s an example:
                                   Strong lower high
                                    to build entries

                                                                        Strong lower high
                                                                         to build entries




                                           Target
                                                                                       Financial Hideout ©


                        Weak lower low
                                                                             Target

                                                           Weak lower low


    If you need a repeatable and proven strategy to profit from moves like this
    check out my snipers' strategy at the end of this guide.


©                                                                                                            Page 12/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                                                             FinancialHideout.com




    Part 3: Trend Mastery
    Now we’ve briefly covered some of the concepts of defining market
    structure in part 1 and 2 of this guide, but in this part, i’m going to dive deep
    and show you how to master trend identification so you can level up your
    entries/exits, improve your risk/reward for trades and align yourself with the
    right side of the market before stepping into a trade.

    Part 3 will show you how to put it all together in one value-packed section,
    here’s what we’ll cover.
     Financial Hideout ©

    1) Identifying Trends.
    2) Drawing Trends.
    3) Break of structure (BOS).
    4) Change of Character (Choch).
    5) Trend Changes.

    Let’s get started.

    Identifying Trends:
    Whether you’re trading crypto, stocks, futures, options, commodities or
    forex you're always going to find price in 1 of 3 periods: Uptrend (Buyers
    markets), Downtrend (Sellers Markets), or Ranging (Neutral Markets).

                                                  Ranging



                                                                                        Downtrends
    Uptrends
                           HH             Financial Hideout ©                 LH




             HH                 HL            Identifying Ranges:        LL                LH
                                                  Equal Highs
                                                  Equal Lows

                  HL                                                                  LL

                   Identifying Uptrend:                             Identifying Downtrend:
                    HH = Higher Highs                                  LH = Lower Highs
                     HL = Higher Lows                                  LL = Lower Lows




©                                                                                               Page 13/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                                                           FinancialHideout.com




    Identifying uptrends:
    Uptrends (Bullish market structure) are categorised by a series of higher
    highs and higher lows. During strong uptrends price rallies from higher lows
    will take out the most recent higher high to create new highs, this is deemed
    a break of structure. During uptrends, traders often look for opportunities to
    align ourselves with the trend by identifying entries into long trades.

    Example of a perfect uptrend:


                                                                                   Price continues
                                                                                    to the upside
                                                        Higher High
                                                                          BOS


                   Higher High
                                 BOS


                                                    Financial Hideout ©

                                                                      Higher Low


                                 Higher Low




    Example of a an uptrend in reality:




                                                                  Higher High



                                              Higher High



                   Higher High                                        Higher Low

                                                    Higher Low


                                       Higher Low


                Higher Low




©                                                                                             Page 14/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                                                        FinancialHideout.com




    Identifying downtrends:
    Downtrends (Bearish market structure) are characterised by a series of
    lower highs and lower lows. During strong downtrends, price declines from
    lower highs will penetrate the most recent lower low to establish new lows,
    signaling a break of structure. In downtrends, traders frequently seek
    opportunities to align ourselves with the downward trend, identifying entry
    points for short trades.

    Example of a perfect downtrend:


                               Lower High



                                                                 Lower High

                                               Financial Hideout ©

                                    BOS
                   Lower Low

                                                                      BOS
                                                  Lower Low
                                                                               Price continues
                                                                               to the downside

    Example of a an downtrend in reality:




                                Lower High


                                                         Lower High



                                                                              Lower High
                           Lower Low



                                             Lower Low



                                                                       Lower Low



©                                                                                          Page 15/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                                                                            FinancialHideout.com



    Identifying ranging Trends:
    Ranging markets (Neutral market structure) are characterised by a lack of
    direction, with price trading within a defined range. In sideways markets,
    price movements often fail to establish significant higher highs or lower
    lows, resulting in a consolidation pattern. Personally, for reasons stated
    earlier in this guide, I avoid them until the next directional move. If you’re
    looking to profit in ranging markets I break down a profitable strategy in my
    ‘Complete Trader Bundle’.
    Here’s an example of a ranging market:
                                               Equal Highs                            Equal Highs




                                          Financial Hideout ©



                           Equal Lows                              Equal Lows


    Identifying the next directional move/defined structure forming:

                                                                    Swing High
                                             Price breaks above                               Bullish structure
            Equal Highs                 Equal Highs                                           forming (Next
                                                                                              directional move)
                                                                                HL




          Financial Hideout ©                                                    LH
                          Equal Lows                  Equal Lows
                                                                                                Bearish structure
                                             Price breaks below                                 forming (Next
                                                                      Swing Low                 directional move)


    To identify a shift from neutral structure to bearish structure first identify a
    price move that breaks below the most recent low of the range to form a
    swing low. Next, wait for price to form a lower high (LH). This second layer
    of confirmation signifies sellers taking control of the market.
    For neutral to bullish structure we need to watch for a break above the most
    recent high of the range to form a swing high then wait for price to make its
    first higher low (HL). This tells us buyers have overwhelmed sellers to take
    control of the market, be carful of fakeouts i’ll cover those in just a moment.


©                                                                                                                 Page 16/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                                             FinancialHideout.com



    Marking trends on a chart:
    To mark uptrends simply take your line tool and connect 2 or more higher
    lows on your price chart, always take the low of the wick as the point you
    draw the trendline. This signifies the lowest point price can trade before
    breaking the trend. Once you have the trendline drawn you can use it to
    forecast future price movements and build trades off of. I breakdown a
    couple profitable strategies I use in the ‘Complete Trader Bundle’ stick
    around to find out.
                                              Higher Highs
    Example:
                   Higher Highs                                        Ascending
                                                                       Trendline




                  Financial Hideout ©




                                        Higher Lows connected
                                            using a line tool



    To mark downtrends, simply use your line tool to connect 2 or more lower
    highs on your price chart, always taking the high of the wick as the point to
    draw the trendline. This signifies the highest point price can trade before
    breaking the trend. Once you have the trendline drawn out, you can use it to
    forecast future price movements.

    Example:
                                        Lower Highs Connected
                                           using a line tool




                                               Financial Hideout ©         Descending
                                                                           Trendline

                Lower Low



                                                  Lower Low



©                                                                               Page 17/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                                                                                  FinancialHideout.com


    Price behaviour during trends:
    Before getting onto fakeouts let’s quickly look at the behaviour of price during a trend.
    When it comes to analysing trends it’s important to understand that most of the time
    prices won’t just skyrocket to the upside.

    This means a strong trend can be categorised into two stages. The first stage is known
    as the impulsive move this is the initial run in price. The second stage is a short corrective
    phase where the price will cool off before continuing the next leg of the trend.

    The corrective phase in trends is caused by either buyers or sellers entering the markets
    and even traders taking profits. Let’s look at a few examples.

    Impulsive + Corrective stages during an uptrend.

                                                                       Corrective move
                                                                              HH
                                          Corrective move

                                                                                             Impulsive move up
                                                HH
                Impulsive move up                                                     HL


                                                                        Impulsive move up

                                                             HL
              Financial Hideout ©


    During uptrends, corrective moves can be identified as pullbacks to support to create a
    higher low. Once the price establishes a new higher low price will begin another impulsive
    move to the upside and repeat the process until the trend is exhausted. I’ll teach you a
    couple simple way to determine when a move is finished in just a moment, first here’s an
    example of the impulsive + corrective stages during a downtrend:

                              Impulsive move down

                                                       Impulsive move down
                                                LH



                                                            Corrective move
                                     LL                                       LH
                                                                                    Impulsive move down
                                          Corrective move


                                                                  LL




    During downtrends, corrective moves can be identified as short retracements to
    resistance to create a lower high. Once price establishes the lower high price will begin
    its impulsive move back to the downside if the selling pressure is there and the trend is
    strong. Price will repeat this process until the trend is exhausted.

    These corrective phases are a great time to look for entries into trades that align with
    trend. This can be done through a number of methods like: Price patterns, Supply &
    Demand, or Reversal candlesticks. All strategies that are covered in my ‘Complete Trader
    Bundle’, for now, let’s take a look at fakeouts.

©                                                                                                                   Page 18/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                                                                                                   FinancialHideout.com



       Fakeouts and false trend breaks:
       Trends in the live markets won’t always be perfect and will sometimes fake traders out with false
       moves.

       What this means is during an uptrend where price is making higher highs and higher lows, the
       price may break below the most recent higher low to grab liquidity then trade back in the
       direction of the original trend. This initial move lower to the untrained eye may cause traders to
       look for shorts at the next opportunity under the assumption the uptrend has reversed after the
       formation of the lower low but end up getting stopped out. The opposite can be said in
       downtrends.

       Example:                                                                            HH


                                                                HH
                      Strong Trend

                                        HH


                                                                                   Financial Hideout ©


                                                                           HL
                                                          Lures traders into thinking the
                                                HL        trend has change. [ Also known
                                                          as a liquidity grab, i’ll cover this
                                                                                                 Trader may choose to get short here Expecting
                                                          in another guide ]
                          HL                                                                      price to make another lower low but instead
                                                                                                  they get stopped out as price trades higher.


       This is what we would call a bear trap (In a downtrend it would be called a bull trap) It occurs
       during strong trending markets where price will lure sellers into thinking the trend is exhausted
       and about to change given the lower low formed so they enter short trades but ultimately get
       stopped out when price reverses back in the direction of the prior trend (Trapping traders in a
       trade on the wrong side of the market.). This is what we can deem a false trend or fakeout.

       A simple fix to avoid this is waiting for a trend change by confirming 2 factors. In an uptrend, a
       downtrend forms when price takes out a strong higher low from a higher high to form a new
       swing low followed by a strong lower high. In a downtrend, a shift to an uptrend occurs when
       price takes out a strong lower high to create a new swing high followed by a higher low.

                                Strong swing high as it
                                took out the strong low
                                                                     Valid Shift from uptrend
                                                                          to downtrend
        Strong
                                                                                                                        Swing High
    uptrend Trend
                         HH                               Strong LH because
                               BOS                         it broke structure
                                                                                           LH
          HH
                BOS
                                                                                                         BOS


                                                                                                  Financial Hideout ©
                                          BOS
                                                                                                                                 HL
                        Strong HL because
                         it broke structure                        BOS
                HL                                                                                                                    Valid Shift from
                            to the upside.                                                                                             downtrend to
                                                     Swing Low                             BOS
                                                                                                                                          uptrend


                                                                                            Strong swing low as it
                                                                                           took out the strong high



©                                                                                                                                        Page 19/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                                                                           FinancialHideout.com



    Break of structure & Change of Character:
    There are 2 key terms you’re going to want to know when it comes to identifying strong trends
    and identifying shifts in market structure and they are a change of character (choch) and breaks
    of structure (BOS). Let’s start with a break of structure.

    Break of Structure:
    During this guide I’ve mentioned this term quite a lot ‘BOS’ so let me take a moment to break it
    down in detail how to use them to correctly identify continuations in trend as well as strong and
    weak lows & highs.

    Firstly what is a break of structure? A break of structure in an uptrend occurs when price moves
    higher from a higher low to take out the most recent high. What this indicates is the trend is
    strong and likely to continue to the upside making the low a strong low.
                                                                       HH
                                                               BOS

                                          HH
                              BOS

                 Financial Hideout ©

                                                                                Strong HL



                                                  Strong HL

                               ( For a bullish BOS a candle MUST close above most recent high. )

    A break of structure in a downtrend is a price move from a lower high that trades down to take
    out the most recent lower low to form new lows. This indicates a strong downtrend and likely
    continuation of the trend to the downside making the high a strong high.
                                                   Strong LH


                                 Financial Hideout ©
                                                                                 Strong LH




                                    BOS
                                          LL


                                                                 BOS
                                                                         LL

                               ( For a bearish BOS a candle MUST close below most recent low. )

    What defines a break of structure? A valid break of structure occurs when a candle breaks and
    closes above (In an uptrend) or below (in a downtrend) the most recent higher high or lower low.
    A wick above or below is not a valid break of structure. Here’s what that looks like:

                Invalid BOS                                                           Valid BOS
               BOS
                                                                               BOS




©                                                                                                            Page 20/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                                                                          FinancialHideout.com



    After a break of structure occurs price is likely to pull back to an area of support (in an uptrend)
    or resistance level (in a downtrend) before continuing on its respective trend. This is deemed a
    short corrective move after price makes its impulsive move up. Think of it as a little cool-off
    period where traders take profits and re-position themselves before the next leg in the trend. To
    find entries during these corrective phases I like to look for entries from supply & demand zones
    that align with the trend.

    Key = Trade strong structure to weak structure.

    I’ve compiled a complete guide on the supply and demand strategy I used to achieve a 67% win
    and the trading plan that helped me 10x a small trading account within just 2 months. stick around
    till the end to find out more.

    For now let’s take a look at change of characters and how to correctly identify them.

    Change of Character:
    A Choch acts as the first sign of weakness in structure, signalling either the early signs of bullish
    structure shifting to bearish structure or bearish structure shifting to bullish structure.

    A choch from bullish to bearish can be identified when price trades below the most recent higher
    low. This would tell us to stop looking for longs as the bullish move may have finished. We can
    confirm this when price make a new lower high to form bearish structure.

                        Bullish structure                                     Bearish structure

                                            HH
                                                                                      LH
                            HH
       Example =
                                                        Financial Hideout ©

                                                              CHOC
                                                  HL           H


                                             First sign of weakness                  BOS
                                   HL            in bullish structure


    A choch from bearish to bullish can be identified when price trades above the most recent lower
    high. This would tell us to stop looking for shorts as the bearish move could be over. We can
    confirm this when price makes a new higher low to form bullish structure.

                                                                              HH
                                                                                      BOS
                                     LH      First sign of weakness
                                                in bearish structure
                                                   LH
       Example =                                             CHOC
                                                              H



                              LL
                                                                                      HL


                                             LL
                        Bearish structure                                     Bullish structure

                                                              LL




©                                                                                                           Page 21/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                                                                          FinancialHideout.com



    The concept of change of character itself is very similar to a change of trend but there’s one
    small differentiation you can use. Imagine a change in trend as a change of the overall market
    structure where price takes out swing structure in a higher timeframe. Making a choch a change
    of the internal structure.

    To put this in perspective think back to the impulsive and corrective moves that are used to
    define trends. A choch can be used to anticipate the end of the corrective move (Internal
    structure) inside of the larger trend and the continuation of the prior trend.
                                                                                            Continuation of prior trend




                                          Corrective move
                                                                            Bullish BOS
                                     (Internal structure = minor
                                                                        confirming the move
                                       moves in strong trends)

                                HH                                       HH
                                                                                BOS


                                           LH

                                                       LH
                                                             CHOCH


                                      LL                                       Strong swing low as price move took
        Impulsive move
                                                                               out HH to form a BOS signalling lowest
            higher         Financial Hideout ©                                 price can potentially go before a
                                                  LL
                                                                               change of trend


                                                             Strong
                                                                        End of corrective move signalled
                                                            swing low
                                                                        by a choch from bearish structure
                                                                        back to bullish




     Part 3 Summary:
       Uptrends are characterised by higher highs and higher lows, they tell us that the market is
       currently run by buyers.
       Downtrends are characterised by lower lows and lower highs, they tell us that the markets
       are currently run by sellers.
       Sideways structure develops when the price trades between equal highs and equal lows.
       To draw descending trendlines connect a series of lower highs.
       To draw ascending trendlines connect a series of higher lows.
       Trends are created by impulsive and corrective moves in the markets.
       Entries into trades can be found during corrective phases.
       To identify a change in trend wait for the price to put in a lower high and lower low (Uptrend
       to downtrend) or wait for the price to put in a higher high and higher low (Downtrends to
       uptrends).
       A break of structure occurs when price takes out the most recent higher high (Uptrends) or
       Price takes out the most recent lower low (Downtrends)
       Change of charater can signal then end of a corrective move or the early signs of a reversal.




©                                                                                                                 Page 22/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                                                                                                                               FinancialHideout.com



      Part 4: Mapping Structure:
      By now you should have a solid base for identifying market structure but to really help cement the
      process there’s 1 key thing I want to cover before we get onto what to keep in mind when
      analysing structure and a breakdown of the steps to take when it comes to opening up your chart.
      The 1 key thing any aspiring technical analyst should keep in mind when it comes to drawing
      structure is... Always draw structure from the wick of the candle. I like to do this because it
      signifies the absolute high or low a price can trade before either breaking structure or changing
      character. Once identified extend the line tool to the left to project where price is likely to trade.

                                                                                                                                            ?

                                                            Wick of the candle
                                                                                                       Financial Hideout ©

                                             Example =




      What to look for:
      Identify strong highs and lows in price.
      Look for weak areas in the market to target.
      Determine the most recent swing range to identify trades.
      Is there any significant reversal points.
      What way is the market trading?
      Is the price currently in an impulse phase or a corrective phase?
      Determine strong entry points.

    Key:
            = Strong high (Did it’s job to take out higher low)

            = Weak high (Didn’t do it’s job to take out higher low)

            = Strong low (Did it’s job to take out lower high)                                                                                                  HH

            = Weak low (Didn't do it’s job to take out lower high)                                                                                                             BOS

                                             Strong Swing High

                                                                         Dow                                                Financial Hideout ©
                                                                            ntr
                                                                               end
                                                                                     (Se
                                                                                        ller
                            HH                                                              sM                                         HH
                                                                            LH                ark
                                                                                                 et)


                                    BOS                                                                LH                                       BOS                                HL
       HH
                                                                                                                     Choc
             BOS                                                                                                      h


                                                    Choc                                                                                                                           t)
                                                                                                                                                                                 ke
                                                                                                                                                                               ar
                                                     h                       BOS                                                                                          s
                                                                                                                                                                              M
                                      HL                                                                                                                                er
                                                                                                                                                                      uy
                                                                                                                                                                    (B
                                                                    LL                                                                                         nd
                                                                                                            BOS                                   HL         re
                                       et)                                                                                                                 pt
                                                                                                                                                          U
                                    ark
               HL                 sM
                               yer
                            (Bu
                         nd                                                                       LL
                      tre
                    Up


                                                                                                                     Strong Swing Low
                                                                                                            (Price move from here takes out LH)
    Financial Hideout ©



©                                                                                                                                                                                 Page 23/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                                                                  FinancialHideout.com




    3 Step Structure Mapping Process:
    1 - Who is in control?
    First things first... who's in currently in control of the market, Buyers or Sellers?
    open up the timeframe 2 or more periods higher than the one your trading, I personally like the 4
    hour or the daily. Once in the chart, identify whether price is making higher Highs (buyers in
    control), or lower lows (Sellers in control). If you need better clarification of the direction of trend,
    use the line tool to mark off an ascending or descending trendline.

    2 - Lower timeframe analysis:
    Now move down into the timeframe you’re trading to set up your market structure. Mark off the
    highs and lows to begin building the story/behaviour of price, next identify any BOS + CHOCHS to
    determine which highs + lows are strongest/weakest. By understanding this we give ourselves
    areas to build entries and exits around later where price is likely to be most reactive. (If you need a
    proven strategy you can apply today, i’ve got something special for you at the end of this guide
    that others are getting fantastic results with.) Financial Hideout ©

    3 - Aligning ourselves with the market:
    A key factor to why some traders are more successful than others is that the succesful ones are
    focussing on higher probability trades that have a greater chance of paying off, therefore having
    greater success. To adopt this method for yourself you'll want to align yourself with the
    momentum of the market. To achieve this identify entries into trades / trade set ups that align with
    the market in both the higher and lower timeframe. For example if you identify buyers being in
    control of the market look for entries into long trades in bullish structure.


    Key considerations:
       Price will not always follow the story you map out: When it comes to marking market structure,
       it is important to understand that just because you’ve drawn something on a chart it doesn’t
       mean price has to follow it. Market structure can only offer us clues to what might happen it is
       up to us to build the trade around the market and tilt the odds in our favour as much as
       possible.
                           Financial Hideout ©
       Always trade what you see: Always trade what you see and not what you hope will happen. For
       example, if the market is trading up, the logical thing to do would be to look for trade entries to
       trade with the market higher

       Keep a trading journal: When mapping market structure you may see something interesting or a
       trade developing. To stay on top of this grab a journal to start building a watchlist. After a trade
       always log the details of the trade from the set up to the take profit to see if you can identify
       anything that can be improved. ‘The Complete Trader Bundle’ includes a cutting edge trading
       journal you can use to stay ontop all the data.

       If you’re looking for long trades in a buyers' market but the structure signals a change, avoid
       entering the market until the new structure is clear.




©                                                                                                     Page 24/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                             FinancialHideout.com




         Congratulations, on completing the
          Market Structure Mastery Guide

                             What did you think?

    If you’ve got 30 seconds please click the link
    below and leave 5* it’ll mean the world to me.



                           Click Here to leave 5*.




                           If you want more...
     Are you looking to take trading seriously and
    achieve profits in less than a week? Yes!? Then
               the next page is for you...




©                                                              Page 25/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                                                            FinancialHideout.com




          Supply & Demand Profit
             Snipers Strategy
         Why choose the Supply & Demand Profit Snipers Strategy?
      The Supply & Demand Profit Snipers Strategy guide is based on the exact strategy I used to
     achieve a 67% win rate and 10X a small trading account in just under 8 weeks. This strategy is
    meant for anyone looking to get into trading and become profitable. Other traders have also seen
                                results in just 2 days using this strategy.

                                      ✅    Snipers Strategy PDF:
     Inside is a full breakdown of supply & demand, with a repeatable blueprint you can use to enter
                               and exit trades. No prior experience needed.

                               ✅ Snipers Strategy Videos Tutorials:
     To accompany the pdf I’ve included a short video course to quickly run you through the process
                                      of setting the strategy up.

                              ✅ Snipers Strategy 10X Trading Plan:
    Gain access to the exact trading plan I used to grow a $100 account 10x in only 8 short weeks so
     you can replicate the results for yourself. As well as the formula to make back the money you
                                                   paid.

                                       ✅ Community Access:




                                       CLICK HERE TO
                                        LEARN MORE


If you want to turn trading into a second source of income in 2024?
 Check out the ‘Complete Trader Bundle’, on the next page. Not only
will you learn every skill necessary to become profitable but we’re also
                   offering a money-back guarantee.



©                                                                                              Page 26/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                                                                FinancialHideout.com




    The Complete Trader Bundle:
    The Ultimate Guide To Turn Trading Into A Second Source of
    Income in 2024.
    The Complete Trader Bundle is designed for traders looking to take their technical analysis skills
    from complete beginner to profitable trader in less than 30 days and track the process along the
    way. If you’re serious about trading this bundle is for you!

    ✅ Technical Analysis Masterclass:
    Gain access to the traders’ execution journal. A PDF guide that will teach you everything you
    need to know about technical analysis without all the fluff to cut out 3-4 years of research.

    ✅ Multiple Profitable Strategies:
    Gain access to multiple profitable trading strategies alongside the supply and demand profit
    snipers strategy you can implement today to start generating profitable trades.

    ✅ Risk Management Mastery:
    Learn multiple methods to manage your risk, effectively position size, protect your capital and
    grow your trading account.

    ✅ Community Access:
    Gain Access to the Financial Hideout members vault before our official launch so you can grow
    alongside the community. (Lifetime Access)

    ✅ Cutting Edge Trading Journal:
    Gain access to The Traders Companion a cutting-edge
    trading journal you can use to automate the way you
    track your trades and improve your trading edge.

    ✅ Lifetime Updates.
    Stay up to date with every update I make to the bundle to
    ensure you have the best knowledge out there. (Last
    update I added 90+ Pages)

    ✅ Over 30+ Case studies.
    ✅ Money Back Guarantee.
    ✅ Trading Psychology Guide.

           CLICK HERE TO
          UNLOCK ACCESS


                            See what others are saying →

©                                                                                                     Page 27/28
Follow @FinancialHideout                FinancialHideout.com



                Financial Hideout Results




                           CLICK HERE




©                                                 Page 28/28
