                                           Search...             
                               Courses    Webinars     Stories   Language 
                                                                                  GET FREE COURSE
                                              Search...    
  BASIC FINANCE        DERIVATIVES       FINANCIAL PLANNING        FUNDAMENTAL ANALYSIS


  TECHNICAL ANALYSIS          MUTUAL FUNDS        MARKETSHALA          MISCELLANEOUS

Home  Technical Analysis




Supertrend Indicator : How to use
for Intraday trading?
      by Vivek Bajaj —      May 24, 2024 in Technical Analysis Reading Time: 14 mins read               5


315.2k                Share on Facebook                  Share on X           Share on WhatsApp       
   VIEWS




A very common problem with intraday traders is which indicators work well for the
intraday trades. Being an intraday trader, chances are that you use technical
analysis to identify trades based on different parameters.

However, the first indicator which
                       Courses     comes Stories
                                Webinars   to our mind   for intraday
                                                    Language         trading is the                
Supertrend indicator due to its simplicity. It can give you precise buyGETor sell
                                                                           FREE   signals
                                                                                COURSE
in a trending market along with the best super trend strategy for intraday.




                      Courses   Webinars   Stories   Language                
                                                                   GET FREE COURSE
Table Of Contents
     What is the Supertrend indicator?

     Why is Supertrend Important?

     How to Use the Supertrend Indicator?

     Best Supertrend Indicator Settings

     Supertrend Indicator Formula

     How to identify buy and sell signal using supertrend indicators?

     Intraday Trading Strategies using Supertrend

         Trading Strategy 1: Supertrend Breakout

         Trading Strategy 2: Supertrend Pullback

         Trading Strategy 3: Supertrend Range Breakout

         Trading Strategy 4: Supertrend Reversal

     Swing Trading and Long Term Strategies with Supertrend

         Trading Strategy 1: Supertrend Trend Following

         Trading Strategy 2: Supertrend Breakout for Swing Trading

     Trading strategy using Supertrend and Moving Average Crossover

     Best Timeframe to Use in Supertrend Indicator

     Pros and Cons of Supertrend Indicator

     Watch the video to learn more about this indicator:

     Bottomline

     Frequently Asked Questions

         How accurate is supertrend strategy?

         How is SuperTrend indicator calculated?

         How can I use Supertrend indicator for intraday trading?

         What timeframe and setting is best for supertrend indicator for day
      trading?

         In stock market Supertrend indicator 7 3 is equal to moving average?
                  Courses   Webinars   Stories   Language                 
                                                                GET FREE COURSE
What is the Supertrend indicator?
A Super Trend is a trend following indicator similar to moving averages. It is plotted
on price and the current trend can simply be determined by its placement vis-a-
vis price. It is a very simple indicator and is constructed with the help of just two
parameters- period and multiplier.

When we construct the Supertrend indicator strategy, the default parameters are
10 for the Average True Range (ATR) and 3 for its multiplier. The average true range
(ATR) plays a key role in ‘Supertrend’ as the indicator uses ATR to compute its value
and it signals the degree of price volatility.


Why is Supertrend Important?
Determining the direction of the dominant trend in the market is the main function
of the Supertrend indicator. It establishes whether a trend is bullish or bearish by
combining price activity and volatility. This aids traders in following the direction of
the prevailing market, which is a key element of profitable trend trading.


How to Use the Supertrend Indicator?
To use this indicator, you need to open the chart of a particular stock that you want
to track and set a time interval of 10 minutes when doing intraday trading.

You can use any good charting software. After opening the chart, insert supertrend
and keep the settings as 10 and 3.

You can also insert your own settings as well. However, while you using this
indicator, you should not avoid putting your stop loss.

For a long position, you can put stop loss right at the green indicator line. For a
short position, you can put it at the red indicator line. Using a supertrend along with
a stop-loss pattern is the best way to earn the best wealth in trading.


Best Supertrend Indicator Settings
The default parameter is a period of 10 and 3.

You should note that any changes to these numbers  can affect the use of the
                     Courses Webinars  Stories Language                          
Supertrend indicator.                                                 GET FREE COURSE
There is no best setting for any trading indicator. As well, the more settings you
change can lead to a trading system that is over-optimized for that point in time.

You should note the following points;

    Smaller settings can make the indicator more reactive to the price, which means
    more signals

    Higher settings will remove the noise from the market at the risk of fewer trading
    signals



Supertrend Indicator Formula
The supertrend indicator calculation is shown below–

Up = (high + low / 2 + multiplier x ATR

Down = (high + low) / 2 – multiplier x ATR

Calculation of Average True Range –

[(Prior ATR x 13) + Current TR] / 14

Here, 14 indicates a period. Hence, the ATR is derived by multiplying the previous
ATR with 13. Add the latest TR and divide it by period.

Thus, ATR plays an important role in the supertrend technical analysis indicator.


How to identify buy and sell signal using
supertrend indicators?
Super Trend being a trending indicator works beautifully in trending markets (both
uptrends and downtrends). The buy-sell signal can easily be identified when the
indicator flips over the closing price. A buy signal is generated when the Super
Trend closes below the price and the color changes to green. On the other hand, a
sell signal is made when the Super Trend closes above the price and the color of
Super Trend turns red.

There’s no technical indicator which can be 100% accurate and so is Super Trend
also. It also generates false signals in the sideways market, though it gives lesser
                       Courses   Webinars   Stories   Language                    
                                                                       GET FREE COURSE
false signals as compared to other indicators. So you can combine Super Trend
with other indicators to get better trading signals.


Intraday Trading Strategies using
Supertrend
During a single trading day, intraday trading methods that employ the Supertrend
indicator can be useful for spotting trend-based opportunities and catching brief
price swings. Here are four Supertrend-based intraday trading techniques:


Trading Strategy 1: Supertrend Breakout
Trade on Supertrend breakthrough indications to take advantage of big market
momentum developments.

Steps:

Configuration: Utilize the Supertrend indicator on a 5-minute or 15-minute intraday
chart.Determine the Supertrend’s direction (bearish or bullish) based on the signal
from the indicator.

Entry Requirement: When the Supertrend reverses course, look for a breakthrough
above (for long trades) or below (for short trades) the previous high/low.

Verify the breakout using momentum indicators (e.g., RSI, MACD) and higher
volume.

Exit Requirements:

    Aim for a price based on significant resistance/support levels or recent price
    fluctuations.

    If the trend turns back, use a trailing stop-loss or the opposite Supertrend signal to
    exit the trade.


Trading Strategy 2: Supertrend Pullback
When there are brief retracements within the general trend direction, enter trades
at advantageous price points.

Steps:
                       Courses   Webinars   Stories   Language                      
                                                                        GET FREE COURSE
Setup: Use the Supertrend indicator to determine the direction of the current
trend.Await price pullbacks or retracements that go counter to the trend.

Trading Criteria: Whenever the price retracement hits a significant level of support
(for long trades) or resistance (for short trades) that is in line with the Supertrend
direction, it is time to enter the trade.

For confirmation of the trend’s possible continuation or reversal, use candlestick
patterns or other technical indicators.

Exit Requirements:

    Decide on your profit goals based on the opposing Supertrend signal or levels of
    nearby resistance and support.

    To reduce losses and preserve profits, use a trailing stop-loss.


Trading Strategy 3: Supertrend Range Breakout
Trade breakouts with the Supertrend indicator from range-bound market
circumstances.

Steps:

Setup: Using the Supertrend indicator, pinpoint times of consolidation or sideways
movement. Await a breakout that occurs above or below the range limits.

Entry Requirement: Trade when the price breaks out of the range and the
Supertrend confirms it (a shift in direction). Use momentum indicators and higher
volume to confirm the breakout.

Exit Criteria: Determine profit targets by looking at recent price fluctuations or the
breadth of the range. If the breakout holds, use a trailing stop-loss to profit from
further gains.


Trading Strategy 4: Supertrend Reversal
Use the Supertrend indicator to spot possible trend reversals and seize
countertrend trades.

Steps:
                       Courses   Webinars   Stories   Language                   
                                                                       GET FREE COURSE
Setup: Keep an eye out for indications of fatigue or deviation from the main trend in
the Supertrend.Search for candlestick patterns or chart formations that might
indicate a reversal.

Requirements for Entry: When the Supertrend swings in the opposite direction of the
dominant trend—that is, from bullish to bearish or vice versa—you should enter a
trade. Use additional technical indicators or price action patterns to validate the
reversal signal.

Exit Requirements: Decide on your profit goals based on the opposing Supertrend
signal or levels of close support and resistance.To control risk in the event that the
reversal is brief, use a tight stop-loss.


Swing Trading and Long Term Strategies
with Supertrend
For capturing long-term trends and optimizing earnings over time, swing trading
and long-term methods utilizing the Supertrend indicator can be useful. Using the
Supertrend indicator, the following four techniques are designed for long-term
investing and swing trading:


Trading Strategy 1: Supertrend Trend Following
As your main trend-following tool, use the Supertrend indicator to identify and
capture medium- to long-term patterns.

Steps:

Configuration: Utilizing a medium- to long-term chart (daily or weekly, for
example), apply the Supertrend indicator.To ascertain the main trend, identify the
Supertrend’s direction (bearish or bullish).

Requirements for Entry: When price retraces to a good level within the prevailing
trend (e.g., near the Supertrend line), enter trades in the direction of the Supertrend.
To corroborate the trend direction, look for additional confirmation from other
technical indicators (such as moving averages and RSI).

Exit Requirements:When the trend begins to show indications of fatigue or reversal,
use the opposing Supertrend signal or a trailing stop-loss to exit trades. Hold onto
                       Courses Webinars Stories Language 
your positions until there                                                       
                           is a definite evidence of a trend reversal or a noteworthy
                                                                      GET FREE COURSE
development.
Trading Strategy 2: Supertrend Breakout for Swing
Trading
Use the Supertrend indicator to spot breakouts and profit from swing trading
chances.

Steps:

Setup: Keep an eye on the Supertrend indicator on a medium-term chart (such as
a daily or 4-hour chart).
Await a consolidation of the price inside a specific range or pattern.

Requirements for Entry: Trade entry is indicated by a shift in the direction of the
Supertrend when the price breaks out above or below the consolidation range. To
verify the breakout, use momentum indicators and volume analysis.

Exit Requirements: Profit targets can be established using technical levels (e.g.,
Fibonacci retracement levels, prior swing highs/lows) or the predicted range of the
breakout. Use a trailing stop-loss to safeguard profits and profit from future trend
extensions.


Trading strategy using Supertrend and
Moving Average Crossover
This is the best EMA crossover for intraday. This strategy basically comprises of
Super Trend and 5-20 EMA crossover. When the Super Trend turns green (i.e. Super
Trend is below the price) and 5 EMA is above 20 EMA, a buy signal is generated.
Similarly, when the Super Trend turns red (i.e. Super Trend is above the price) and
20 EMA is above 5 EMA, a sell signal is generated.

Below is the chart of Nifty. The buy signals are shown with the help of green arrows
and the sell signal is shown with the help of red arrows. As you can see in the chart
that you can really catch big moves based on this strategy and keep trailing stop
loss with the help of Super Trend to protect your profits.




                      Courses   Webinars   Stories   Language                  
                                                                     GET FREE COURSE
Best Timeframe to Use in Supertrend
Indicator
As for swing traders and position holders, they can use longer timeframes.

This indicator can also be used on multiple timeframes where you place it on a
larger timeframe then go down to a lower timeframe and use it for entry and exit
signals.

The lowest timeframe you should use is the 15-minute chart.


Pros and Cons of Supertrend Indicator
Supertrend gives accurate signals on precise time. Also, the indicator is available
on various trading platforms free of cost.

The indicator helps the intraday traders to make faster decisions. It is simple to use
and understand. However, the indicator is not appropriate for all the market
phases, It works best when the market is trending.

You can watch the video below to get a better idea of the concept and use of
Supertrend indicator: A Super Trend indicator can be used on equities, forex, or
futures on various time frames including hourly, daily, weekly, etc.
                      Courses   Webinars     Stories   Language               
                                                                    GET FREE COURSE
However, Super Trend needs to be used in conjunction with other indicators like RSI,
Parabolic SAR, MACD, etc to receive filtered signals.

Moreover, Supertrend also works as a trailing stop-loss for the existing trades and
acts as strong support or resistance.

You can also use Supertrend Scans in StockEdge–




Watch the video to learn more about this
indicator:




                      Courses   Webinars   Stories   Language                
                                                                   GET FREE COURSE
Learn Supertrend Indicator for successful intraday trading. Enroll now to learn
trading online course and elevate your trading skills!


Bottomline
A Super Trend is a trend following indicator similar to moving averages. This
indicator can also be used on multiple timeframes where you place it on a larger
timeframe then go down to a lower timeframe and use it for entry and exit signals.
Supertrend gives accurate signals on precise time. Also, the indicator is available
on various trading platforms free of cost.


Frequently Asked Questions
How accurate is supertrend strategy?
There’s no technical indicator which can be 100% accurate and so is Super Trend
also. It also generates false signals in the sideways market, though it gives lesser
false signals as compared to other indicators


How is SuperTrend indicator calculated?
The supertrend indicator calculation is shown below–
Up = (high + low / 2 + Courses
                       multiplierWebinars
                                  x ATR   Stories Language                     
                                                                    GET FREE COURSE
Down = (high + low) / 2 – multiplier x ATR
Calculation of Average True Range – [(Prior ATR x 13) + Current TR] / 14

Here, 14 indicates a period. Hence, the ATR is derived by multiplying the previous
ATR with 13. Add the latest TR and divide it by period. Thus, ATR plays an important
role in the supertrend technical analysis indicator.


How can I use Supertrend indicator for intraday trading?
For using this indicator, you need to open the chart of a particular stock that you
want to track and set a time interval of 10 minutes when doing intraday trading.
You can use any good charting software. After opening the chart insert supertrend
and keep the settings as 10 and 3.


What timeframe and setting is best for supertrend indicator for day
trading?
The default parameter is a period of 10 and 3.


In stock market Supertrend indicator 7 3 is equal to moving average?
No it is not equal. 7 denotes the ATR value of last 7 candlesticks and 3 is the
multiplier




Continue Learning




                      Courses   Webinars   Stories   Language                    
                                                                     GET FREE COURSE
Tags:   average true range     english     rsi   supertrend indicator strategy   technical analysis




               Share                               Tweet                       Send                 




Previous Post                                         Next Post

   A Guide on Modern Portfolio Theory                       All 35 Candlestick Chart Patterns in the
   (MPT)                                                    Stock Market-Explained



                             Courses     Webinars    Stories    Language                      
                                                                                  GET FREE COURSE
                        Vivek Bajaj
                            Mr. Vivek Bajaj has over 18 years of trading experience in equities, options,
                            currencies, and commodity markets. He is the co-founder of Stockedge and
                            Elearnmarkets and is passionate about data, analytics, and technology. He
                            serves on various exchange committees and has played a significant role in
                            the evolution of India's derivative market. He has been a speaker at various
                            colleges and higher institutions, including IIT and IIMs.


                                        




       Related Posts




  TECHNICAL ANALYSIS                                           TECHNICAL ANALYSIS



Top 5 Proven Strategies for a Multi-                         Top 5 Scalping Trading Indicators
Timeframe Analysis                                            SEPTEMBER 9, 2024    22K

 SEPTEMBER 16, 2024    814




  TECHNICAL ANALYSIS                                           TECHNICAL ANALYSIS



5 Momentum Trading Strategies to Ride                        What is the Golden Crossover Strategy?
the Market Waves Right                                        JULY 23, 2024    2.5K
 SEPTEMBER 9, 2024     7.1K




Comments                        5




            Aditya  3 yearsCourses
                             ago            Webinars     Stories    Language                          
                                                                                           GET FREE COURSE
          If I’m doing options trading on indices, is it a good idea to use supertrend on the
          options chart?

           Reply




              Sakshi Agarwal  3 years ago

              Hi,

              Supertrend can be used in the options chart as well.

              Thank you for Reading our blog.

               Reply



          Ashok Ahire  3 years ago

          All blogs are very nice and helpful but for common man can’t understand English
          language. So I request please if translations in hindi are available is better ..
          Thanks.

           Reply




              Sakshi Agarwal  3 years ago

              Hi,

              We really appreciated that you liked our blog! Thank you for your feedback!

              Keep Reading!

               Reply




          Arvind Kumar  3 months ago

          most important and useful tool.Happpy to read this article.

           Reply




Leave a Reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *


Comment *




                           Courses    Webinars   Stories   Language                          
                                                                                GET FREE COURSE
Name *




Email *




  POST COMMENT




 Follow Us




    Register on Elearnmarkets

    Continue your financial learning by creating your own account on Elearnmarkets.com


      REGISTER FREE ACCOUNT



    Download App
                         Courses   Webinars    Stories   Language                       
                                                                            GET FREE COURSE
  Categories

  Basic Finance

  Derivatives

  Financial Planning

  Fundamental Analysis

  Technical Analysis

  Mutual Funds

  Miscellaneous




Popular On Elearnmarkets

Market Superheroes:      Vivek Bajaj     Chetan Panchamia       Ashish Kyal      Premal Parekh     Abhijit Paul
Jegan    Sivakumar Jayachadran           Jyoti Budhia     Vivek Gadodia     Vishal Mehta      Piyush Chaudhry
Santosh Pasi      Gomathi Shankar


Courses:​ Options Trading          Dow Theory   Momentum Trading           Stock Investing
Harmonic Chart Patterns       Algo Trading      Elliot Wave Theory    Advanced Excel         Cryptocurrency

NSE Certification Course


Webinars:   Bank Nifty Scalping        Intraday Trading Strategies       Options Trading Strategies
Options selling     Price Action    Relative Strength     Tax Planning     Options Buying      Growth Stocks
Portfolio Management       Risk Management         Renko Charts      Crude Oil    Traders Psychology

Moving Average       Multibagger Stocks


Free Learning Modules:      Intraday Trading       Options Scalping      Swing Trading     Financial Modelling

RSI Indicator     Bollinger Bands    Pricing of Futures    Personal Finance      Initial Public Offerings (IPO)
Value Investing             Courses
                    Technical Indicators Webinars   Stories
                                          Candlesticks  Chart Language
                                                              Patterns Option
                                                                             Greeks                ELSS Funds
                                                                                               GET FREE COURSE
                                                                                                               
Banking and Insurance       Real Estate     Gold
Book Summaries:    Rich Dad Poor Dad      Psychology of Money      The Intelligent Investor

The Richest Man in Babylon   Think and Trade Like a Champion
Value Investing and Behavioural Finance      Trading in the Zone   Learn to Earn


Tools:   CAGR Calculator   SIP Calculator    eLearnOptions   Future Value Calculator
Present Value Calculator   Atal Pension Yojana     Cost of Delay Calculator    Become a Crorepati




                                © 2024 Elearnmarkets. All Rights Reserved

                   Visit Elearnmarkets      Courses   Webinars     Financial Guides   Get Free Counselling



                                         Download Our App




                                                                                                    
