     The ICT Bible

   Introduction to
    ICT concepts
          By Ali Khan
           (ICT Chartered)




          Volume 1
                  

        FOUNDATION LEVEL




          @Ali_Khan_ICT

www.theinnercircledragons.com
            DISCLAIMER

 The contents of this e-Book are for educational purposes only
 and are of my own interpretation of ICT concepts, which have
been authored and created by my mentor Michael.J.Huddleston
 (ICT). The concepts explained in this e-Book are foundational
and are not explained in their entirety. A library of his concepts
      can be found on his YouTube channel (The Inner Circle



The ICT Bible
Trader) for a deeper understanding. If you find the concepts in
  this e-Book taught in other places and/or have been renamed,
     they are still the concepts of Michael.J.Huddleston. SMC
  (Smart Money Concepts) and ICT concepts are the same, and
from the same author, Michael.J.Huddleston. I am not claiming
   these concepts as my own. I have been privately mentored by
  Michael and have spent many years studying and using these
 concepts in my personal trading. I welcome Michael to contact
        me if any revisions need to be made to this e-book.




        www.theinnercircledragons.com
      INTRODUCTION
                  Hello! Welcome to The ICT Bible.
                                   

Firstly, I would like to thank my mentor M.J.Huddleston (ICT)
        for bringing his concepts to the retail trading world.
                                   

My name is Ali Khan (AK). Prior to becoming a full-time trader,
I spent a decade working as a Pharmacist in the UK. Like many
     of us, I was dabbling in trading on the side of my day job.
   Unfortunately, I was not very good and could not find much
 consistency in my approach to trading. I found myself moving
    from strategy to strategy, spending thousands of pounds on
   courses. Despite this, I never seemed to find profitability and
    never understood why the markets moved the way that they
did... until I found ICT. I was fortunate enough to discover ICT
in early 2018 after being introduced to him by a friend, who was
     already enrolled in his private mentorship. Once I started



The ICT Bible
   learning his concepts, I quickly realised the truth about how
 these markets actually book and have never looked back since.
            (Unless we are talking IPDA data ranges. Lol)
                                   

 Inspired by Michael, I have decided to give back to the trading
  community by sharing my trading experiences, and doing my
     best to help simplify ICT concepts for newer traders. After
receiving hundreds of messages, I have decided to create this e-
Book to help with some of the recurring questions that I receive.
                                   

Finally, I wish you all the best on your trading journey. Trading
  is NOT easy and ICT concepts require time and experience to
be used effectively. Permit yourself time to learn and use this e-
                Book to aid you in your chart studies.
                                 

                  Good Luck & Good Trading.
                                 



                               AK

        www.theinnercircledragons.com
    CONTENTS
 THE ALGORITHM              1

 AMD                        2

 THE FVG                    4

 TIME                       9

 3 BAR SWING                10

 SMT                        11

 POWER OF 3                 13



The ICT Bible
 PDARRAYS

 THE ORDER BLOCK
                            15

                            16

 THE BREAKER BLOCK          19

 THE MITIGATION BLOCK       23

 THE DEALING RANGE          27

 PREMIUM vs DISCOUNT        29

 FINAL THOUGHTS             30




 www.theinnercircledragons.com
       THE ALGORITHM
    'An algorithm is responsible for moving price in the markets.'
                                    -ICT



        We are taught that price is moved by buying and selling
     pressure, and that the direction of the market is determined by
         which side has the larger inflows of cash. This is false.

     The truth is, they are not going to let the entire financial system
     be at the mercy of random buying and selling. Using computer
      programming to automate the markets with an algorithm is
                     much more efficient and reliable.

         Michael (ICT - The engineer of the algorithm) calls this
        algorithm IPDA (The Interbank Price Delivery Algorithm)


    The ICT Bible
      IPDAs job is to manipulate price in order to engineer liquidity
        into the market place, and to offer fair value. This allows
     SMART MONEY, who understand how these algorithms work,
                 to capitalise on the movement of price.

              There are 2 main targets that IPDA will seek:

            1) Liquidity above/below old highs and old lows.
                   2) Areas of inefficient price action

      Understanding WHEN and to WHERE IPDA will manipulate
         price, can give unmatched levels of precision and an
       understanding in price action that prior to ICT, was never
                     possible for us retail traders..


1
             www.theinnercircledragons.com
                                  AMD
                     Accumulation, Manipulation,
                           Distribution


                      'Everything starts with consolidation'
                                        -ICT




          IPDA holds price in a range. This allows liquidity to build up
        above the consolidation range in the form of buystops, and below
        the consolidation range in the form of sellstops. This is known as



        The ICT Bible
                            the accumulation phase.



                   Buystops Triggered




        IPDA will then reprice above the consolidation range, triggering
          the buystops into active market orders. This is known as the
           manipulation phase (often referred to as the Judas swing).




    2           www.theinnercircledragons.com


               Buystops Triggered




      Sellstops Triggered




    Smart money will pair liquidity from the willing buyers (buystops)
    with short positions, and offload these positions to willing sellers
     below the consolidation range (sellstops). This is known as the
                            distribution phase.



    This whole process is a part of IPDAs market efficiency paradigm
     logic, whereby smart money will sell to the buyers and buy back


    The ICT Bible
    from the sellers (and vice versa). This is obviously oversimplified
      and there are ways to determine when and where this process is
    likely to happen, but that is beyond the scope of this e-Book. The
    speed of the manipulation leg also causes FOMO for buyers, who
     are chasing the market, thus entering longs in the expansion leg
      higher. This is also another example of how IPDA will engineer
     liquidity by the manipulation of price. The same concept can be
       seen with other retail patterns such as trendlines, support and
      resistance, head and shoulder patterns, bull and bear flags etc.
    Each of these patterns are designed to draw retail money into the
     marketplace. When trading, one should consider 'Where are the
            retail stops?' when undertaking their trade analysis.




3
              www.theinnercircledragons.com
                      THE FVG
                         (FAIR VALUE GAP)

    IPDA not only engineers liquidity in the markets by moving price,
     by design it has to offer fair value for buying and for selling. This
       too is based on its market efficiency paradigm logic. In some
         cases, IPDA may reprice too quickly in one direction over
    another, thus leaving an inefficiency in price delivery (A FVG). In
    order for IPDA to maintain its fair value parameters, it will reprice
     to rebalance the inefficient price action to offer fair value to both
                             sides of the market.


                                   BISI
             (Buyside Imbalance, Sellside Inefficiency)




    The ICT Bible                        ONLY BUYSIDE
                                           OFFERED




      The example above is known as a BISI. This is where IPDA has
     repriced to buyside too quickly. This leaves a buyside imbalance
    (the space between the red lines). The wicks offer both buying and
     selling in the up and down movement. The body where no wicks
       overlap is all buyside delivery and inefficient of any sellside
                                  delivery.


4
             www.theinnercircledragons.com
                                  SIBI
             (Sellside Imbalance, Buyside Inefficiency)




                                    ONLY SELLSIDE
                                      OFFERED




      The example above is known as a SIBI. This is where IPDA has
      repriced to sellside too quickly. This leaves a sellside imbalance
    (the space between the red lines). The wicks offer both buying and
     selling in the up and down movement. The body where no wicks



    The ICT Bible
        overlap is all sellside delivery and inefficient of any buyside
                                     delivery.

                              Redelivered




5
            www.theinnercircledragons.com
    In the example above, buyside movement has been redelivered back
     through the sellside imbalance. The inefficient sellside imbalance
      has now been matched with buyside price delivery, offering us a
         balanced price range of both buyside and sellside delivery.

                              Rebalanced




    When price passes back through this range for a 3rd time and leaves
       it, this whole range has now been rebalanced. Any upward


    The ICT Bible
      movement back through this range should be met with strong
                     resistance (in a bearish market)
                     True Support & Resistance
                           (The 3 Levels)




6
             www.theinnercircledragons.com
             The PREMIUM level (high) of the FVG should offer
          support in a bullish market if price has closed above this
           level. This level becomes even stronger as support if the
                     FVG has been balanced/rebalanced.


            The DISCOUNT level (low) of the FVG should offer
           resistance in a bearish market if price has closed below
         this level. This level becomes even stronger as resistance if
                   the FVG has been balanced/rebalanced.


          The CONSEQUENT ENCROACHMENT (C.E) is the
          midpoint or 50% equilibrium level of a FVG. There are
         many caveats to this level that are again beyond the scope
         of this e-Book, but will mainly act as a support/resistance
                           level inside of a FVG.


                            DISPLACEMENT


    The ICT Bible
     A FVG can indicate that IPDA is in a hurry to move price in one
     direction over another. This is an algorithmic footprint that we
    can see in price action. ICT often uses the analogy of an elephant
       stepping into a children's pool. Since the size and mass of the
    elephant's foot is so large, we will of course see a displacement of
        water. ICT uses this analogy to draw a comparison to larger
      institutions with 'deep pockets' entering the marketplace. Like
    everything with ICT concepts, there are of course caveats to when
    and where we can expect displacement to occur and when to trust
       it, but keeping this analogy in mind at key support/resistance
                          levels will serve you well.




7


            www.theinnercircledragons.com
                                  V.I
                         (Volume Imbalance)




     A Volume Imbalance (V.I.) occurs when there is an area of price
     that has been left without a candle body. There is up-and-down
    movement in the overlapping of the wicks, however since the bulk
    of the volume is in the body of the candle, we dub this a Volume
                                Imbalance.

                                  G.I
    The ICT Bible          (Gap Imbalance)




    A Gap Imbalance (G.I) occurs when an area of price is void of any
     price delivery including wick movement. This is a real price gap.


8           www.theinnercircledragons.com


                          TIME
     Time is the first component IPDA will refer to. Once the time
     window is in operation, IPDA will then look to seek key levels
        (PD.ARRAYS) in price. It is always TIME then PRICE.

    The manipulation of price will occur in these windows of time.
         ICT refers to these time windows as KILLZONES.

     News drivers within these Killzones are often the catalyst for
     IPDA to reprice to key levels, by initiating buy/sell programs.

     During high-impact news events such as CPI, FOMC or NFP,
     manual intervention can take place. This is where the normal
    pricing parameters in IPDA's pricing algorithm can be manually
       overridden. This is usually done at the central bank level.




    The ICT Bible        KILLZONES
                            FX (NY-EST)

                         ASIA - 8pm - 12am
                       LONDON - 2am - 5am
                      NEY YORK - 7am - 10am
                 LONDON CLOSE - 10am - 12pm


                  FUTURES/CRYPTO (NY-EST)
                   AM SESSION - 8.30am- 12pm
                   PM SESSION - 1.30pm - 4pm



9          www.theinnercircledragons.com


       THE 3 BAR SWING
         SWING HIGH




     A swing high is the highest high (middle candle) with a lower high
                  to the left and a lower high to the right



     The ICT Bible
        SWING LOW




     A swing low is the lowest low (middle candle) with a higher low to
                    the left and a higher low to the right

10


             www.theinnercircledragons.com
            INSTITUIONAL
            SPONSORSHIP
     We can see the footprints of institutional sponsorship within price
       action. The algorithms that dictate the price of asset classes all
     work synergistically with one another. It makes sense if you think
      about it.. If one asset class is correlated with another asset class,
      price fluctuations are going to have an impact on it's correlated
         asset. ICT calls this S.M.T Divergence (Smart Money Tool)


                                 S.M.T
                             Correlated Pair 1




     The ICT Bible
     LOWER LOW


                                                          Sell Stops Purged




                             Correlated Pair 2




     HIGHER LOW



                                                      Sell Stops NOT Purged




11


              www.theinnercircledragons.com
        In the example above, we can see that correlated pair 1 made a
         lower low, running its sellside liquidity below a previous low.
      Since pair 2 is correlated to pair 1, we should also expect to see it
      run its sellside liquidity below its previous swing low. It failed to
     do so. This indicates strength in pair 2 as it is unwilling to take its
      sellside liquidity. This divergence is a footprint of smart money
           and institutional accumulation. This crack in correlation
       indicates that pair 1 is only going lower to take sellside liquidity
     before repricing higher, with institutional sponsorship behind the
                      move. (Reverse for sellside delivery)

                          Inversely Correlated Pair 1




     HIGHER LOW



                                                            Sell Stops NOT Purged




     The ICT Bible                                            Buy Stops Purged


     HIGHER HIGH




                          Inversely Correlated Pair 2

      In the example above, we can see that inversely correlated pair 1
     failed to run its sellside liquidity below a previous low. Since pair
      2 is inversely correlated to pair 1, we should also expect to see it
      fail to run its buyside liquidity above its previous swing high. It
     did run the buyside liquidity, whilst pair 1 failed to run its sellside
      liquidity. This indicates strength in pair 1 as it is unwilling to go
     lower. This crack in correlation indicates that pair 2 is only going
            higher to take buyside liquidity before repricing lower.
12


             www.theinnercircledragons.com
                 POWER OF 3
      The Po3 concept enables us to buy below the opening price on a
      buy day and sell above the opening price on a sell day. There are
     many caveats to this concept but for the purposes of this e-book, I
      will keep it simple. We use midnight NY (EST) time as our filter
     for the Po3 concept. The opening price at this time is the true day
                               opening price.



                     CLASSIC BUY DAY
                   High                               High


                          Close                               Close




     The ICT Bible
     12am Open                            12am Open



                   Low                                Low




        In the example above, we can see how the OHLC bar can be
        viewed as a daily candle stick. The 12am opening price is our
      filter. Our aim is to buy at or below this open as the low is being
      formed, when we anticipate a bullish day. We are not concerned
           about the close. Our objective is to trade the bulk of the
                            expansion move higher.



13


             www.theinnercircledragons.com
                   CLASSIC SELL DAY


                 High                                High


                                       12am Open
     12am Open




                                                            Close
                        Close


                  Low                               Low




     The ICT Bible
        In the example above, we can see how the OHLC bar can be
     viewed as a daily candle stick. The midnight opening price is our
       filter. We aim to sell at or above this open as the high is being
     formed when we anticipate a bearish day. We are not concerned
           about the close. Our objective is to trade the bulk of the
                            expansion move lower.

     ICT refers to the manipulation above/below the opening price as
                            the JUDAS swing.

      Together with time and key levels in price, we can predict how
                high or low this Judas swing may reach.

     I have already explained the time element in this e-book. Next, I
            will delve into key price levels known as PDArrays.



14


             www.theinnercircledragons.com
                  PD.ARRAYS
                       (Premium/Discount Arrays)


       Arrays are data points that are stored within a program. These
     arrays are key price levels stored in IPDAs repricing logic, relative
       to a premium/discount market, and will be referred back to at
     later dates. These arrays will become active when time aligns with
      price. We do not have zones in ICT logic. Each array has specific
     levels, which can be graded and calibrated. There will be different
       arrays present in each swing that can offer support/resistance.
        Monitoring how price reacts at these key levels can help us to
        gauge order flow in a bullish or bearish market environment.



                THE PD.ARRAY MATRIX

     The ICT Bible           OLD HIGH/LOW
                           REJECTION BLOCK
                             ORDER BLOCK
                            BREAKER BLOCK
                           MITIGATION BLOCK
             PREMIUM
                                  FVG
              MARKET
                              MARKET PRICE              DISCOUNT
                                                         MARKET
                                  FVG
                           MITIGATION BLOCK
                            BREAKER BLOCK
                             ORDER BLOCK
                           REJECTION BLOCK
                             OLD HIGH/LOW


15


             www.theinnercircledragons.com
     THE ORDER BLOCK
                               (BULLISH)

          sellside liquidity
               (old low)

      1




                     2



     1. 
 A down close candle (or consecutive down close candles) that
                             run sellside liquidity



     The ICT Bible
     2.    The down close candle(s) come into a HTF support level




                          3




     3. The down close candle(s) becomes a valid order block once we
                           close above it's high.

16


                 www.theinnercircledragons.com
                                4




     4. A higher quality order block will have a FVG directly above
                             it (displacement)




     The ICT Bible                               5




     5. When price returns back down, the most sensitive area of the
        order block will be the high to the mean threshold (50%). We
          do not want to see price violate the mean threshold of the
                                 order block.




17


           www.theinnercircledragons.com
                                                 6




        6. If the order block is valid, and we are in a bullish
       environment, we should see a reaction from the order block
                     and IPDA will reprice higher.

       Higher probability order blocks will generally be found


     The ICT Bible
     around the equilibrium level (50%) of a consolidation range.


                    OB KEY LEVELS




     Reverse this for Bearish Order Block (Last up close candle(s))

18


           www.theinnercircledragons.com
      THE BREAKER
               (BEARISH)


       1




                      1. A swing high is formed




     The ICT Bible

           2



                      2. A swing low is formed




19


      www.theinnercircledragons.com
                            3


        Buystops
        Triggered




                                3. A HIGHER HIGH is formed




     The ICT Bible
              4
                    Sellstops
                    Triggered




                           4. Price reverses and runs below the
                                      previous swing low


20


      www.theinnercircledragons.com
                 5




               5. Last down close (or consecutive down close
                    candles in the swing low) = BREAKER




      Trapped Longs


     The ICT Bible                                  6




            6. Price returns back to breaker.


21
      www.theinnercircledragons.com
                                                               7




     The ICT Bible
      7.      This return to the breaker allows interbank
           traders to mitigate long positions & add to their
             short positions as the market reprices lower.




                 Reverse this for a Bullish Breaker


22

          www.theinnercircledragons.com
     THE MITIGATION
         BLOCK
                (BEARISH)

       1




                      1. A swing high is formed




     The ICT Bible


                2
                     2. A swing low is formed



23

     www.theinnercircledragons.com
                     3




                     3. A LOWER HIGH is formed




     The ICT Bible
                                           4




                   4. Price reverses and runs below
                           previous swing low


24

     www.theinnercircledragons.com
            5




                    5. Last down close (or consecutive down close
                             candles in the swing low) = M.B




     The ICT Bible
                                                    6




       6. Price returns back to Mitigation Block.

25

     www.theinnercircledragons.com
                                                             7




     The ICT Bible
      7.     This return to the Mitigation Block allowing
            interbank traders to mitigate long positions &
              add to their short positions as the market
                            reprices lower.




              Reverse this for a Bullish Mitigation Block

26

          www.theinnercircledragons.com
           THE DEALING
             RANGE

      The markets move in ranges. Understanding how a range is
            created is one of the most essential components to
                       understanding price delivery.
                                       

         A dealing range is established when we run buyside and
       sellside liquidity to create a new swing. This new swing will
      have it's own high and low. The range between this new high
        and low will become the current dealing range. IPDA will
            seek PDArrays/FVGs and/or INTERNAL RANGE



     The ICT Bible
        LIQUIDITY (Lows/Highs inside of the range) within this
                                dealing range.
                                       

        IPDA will seek internal range liquidity, where interbank
          traders will look to pair buy or sell orders with willing
     participants and offload their positions to willing participants
      above/below the dealing range highs and lows (EXTERNAL
                           RANGE LIQUIDITY).
                                       

     The market constantly moves from internal range liquidity to
         external range liquidity, and external range liquidity to
        internal range liquidity (unless manual intervention is in
                                     play)




27

          www.theinnercircledragons.com
                                            The expansion lower here
                                       has ran sellstops, making a new low




             Sellstops purged




          The expansion higher here
     has ran buystops, making a new high

                                Buystops purged



     The ICT Bible                                                       New Dealing Range




        A new dealing range has been
                established

28

              www.theinnercircledragons.com
                   PREMIUM
                       vs
                   DISCOUNT

           PREMIUM




     50%                                                             50%


     The ICT Bible
           DISCOUNT




      Once we have an established dealing range, we can split this range
      in half. Above the 50% level would become the PREMIUM range
       and below the 50% level would become the DISCOUNT range.
               We seek to buy at discount and sell at a premium.




29

             www.theinnercircledragons.com
                   FINAL
                 THOUGHTS
             This e-Book is designed to build a foundation for the
     understanding of ICT concepts. We only scratch the surface here
        into how deep these concepts go, and how they are applied to
      real-life trading. I have done my best to keep things as concise as
       possible without making this e-Book hundreds of pages long. I
       intend to explore these concepts in greater detail through later
     volumes. As many of you are aware, there is a huge amount of ICT
     content to digest and absorb, and one can only explain so much in
            text format. I have created a video format of short clips
        explaining these concepts in more detail through my Trading
            Academy (details can be found on the website for those
                                   interested).
                                         



     The ICT Bible
        Trading is NOT a get-rich-quick scheme. I cannot stress how
        important it is to learn self-disciple and thoroughly backtest,
          collect data, and create your own personal working model.
      Knowing ICT concepts and how the algorithm's book price does
                  not automatically entitle you to profitability.
                                         

        Finally, I invite everyone who has read this e-book to dig into
     their own charts and see for themselves how these concepts work.
      There is ABSOLUTELY an algorithm controlling these markets.
      ICT has changed the retail trading game forever, and it would be
          in our best interests to spend time to fully understand and
               appreciate the knowledge that he has given to us.
                                         

                             Thank you for reading.
                                       


                        Good Luck & Good Trading
                                       





                                     AK
30

            www.theinnercircledragons.com
@Ali_Khan_ICT


@The_ICD_Academy

@Theinnercircledragons


@Theinnercircledragons


www.theinnercircledragons.com
